Essential Functions and Technical Standards for Admission and Continued 
Enrollment 
The essential functions and technical standards for admission to and continued 
enrollment in the Communication Disorders (COMD) program reflect the essential 
qualities and abilities that are considered necessary to a student's academic and clinical 
performance and success as an independent practitioner upon graduation. Ability to meet 
these Technical Standards is required for admission and must also be maintained 
throughout a student's progress in the major. In the event that, a student is unable to fulfill 
these essential functions and technical standards, with or without reasonable 
accommodation, then the student may be dismissed from the program. Students should 
carefully review the essential functions and technical standards below to determine 
whether or not they can meet these standards with or without accommodation. 
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS 
To be successful in the COMD Program, a student must consistently: 
1. Utilize appropriate and effective spoken, written, and nonverbal communication 
with clients and colleagues from a variety of cultural backgrounds. Students must 
learn complex information, perform clinical problem solving, and synthesize and 
apply information to formulate diagnostic and treatment judgments. 
2. Demonstrate sufficient motor, sensory, memory, and coordination skills to 
perform client service delivery within the scope of speech-language pathology 
practice. 
3. Maintain composure and continue to function well during periods of high stress. 
4. Demonstrate affective skills and appropriate demeanor and rapport with clients, 
caregivers, and professional colleagues. 
5. Adjust to changing situations and uncertainty in an academic or clinical 
environment. 
6. Reliably and critically self evaluate his/her professional-technical and personal 
skills that contribute to positive client outcomes. 
7. Accept constructive criticism and respond by appropriate modification of 
behavior. 
TECHNICAL STANDARDS 
To be successful in the COMD Program, an individual must possess specific skills and 
abilities with respect to Observation Skills/Sensory Abilities, Communication Skills, 
Psychomotor Skills, Cognitive Skills, and Affective/Interpersonal Skills. The Technical 
Standards described below must be met throughout the COMD program. If issues arise, 
the faculty will bring their concerns to the student’s attention and to the Program Head.  
The Program Head is responsible for investigating the issue. Subsequent to investigation, 
the Program Head will send a letter to the student, describing the concern(s) and 
necessary change(s) to resolve the issue. Specific examples, in which the student’s 
limitations interfered with the academic and/or clinical performance, will be provided.

Resources may be suggested to the student for appropriate intervention. A meeting with 
the Program Head, the Director of Clinical Education, and Advisor to discuss the content 
of the letter is strongly encouraged. Pendin g the outcome of the meeting, the student’s 
progress will be monitored to ensure resolution. Upon recommendation of the faculty and 
with approval of the Program Head, if the issue(s) is not resolved satisfactorily in a 
timely manner, a second warning may occur or the student may be denied permission to 
continue in the COMD program. 
1. Observation Skills/Sensory Abilities: Minimum skillset necessary to provide safe 
and effe
ctive patient care, and ensure a safe environment. 
 Visualize and identify anatomical structures and interpret results from 
video imaging. 
 Visualize and identify text, numbers, images, tables and graphs associated 
with complex electronic instrumentation, and written information 
 Observe, interpret, score, and document clients’ activity accurately during 
diagnostic and treatment procedures, including those requiring auditory 
perception. 
 Read, comprehend, and interpret information accurately from diagnostic 
tests, equipment, and client records. Provide complete documentation in a 
timely manner. 
2. Communication Skills: The ability to communicate in a manner that demonstrates 
understandin
g and responsiveness to others' concerns, motivation, feelings and 
behaviors. 
 Communicate effectively and appropriately with patients, faculty, staff, 
peers, and other health care professionals in spoken, written and non-
verbal forms. 
 Understand and speak the English language at a level consistent with 
competent professional practice. 
 Modify communication style to meet diverse communicative needs. 
 Demonstrate non-verbal communication appropriate for culture sensitivity 
and situation. 
 Make a spoken case for a course of action when offering professional 
advice; recognize potential communication barriers and adjust approach or 
clarify information as needed. 
 Collaborate with clients regarding clinical recommendations; provide 
empathy for those suffering anxiety, and put clients at ease in stressful 
situations. 
 Proofread and edit own documentation. Communicate accurately, 
effectively, and legibly on patient documentation, reports, and scholarly 
papers. 
 
3. Psychomotor Skills 
 Attend and pa
rticipate in lecture and laboratory classes.   
 Attend and participate in clinical rotations on- site and in assigned 
locations.

 Accomplish required tasks in clinical and academic settings. 
 Manipulate laboratory, evaluation and intervention materials, including 
completion of all academic and client-related forms and paperwork (e.g. 
lesson plans, data collection forms, SOAP notes, reports). 
 Sustain the physical health and stamina to complete the program in 
speech-language pathology. 
 Respond quickly to provide a safe environment for patients in emergency 
situations. 
 Meet the physical demands of practice across clinical settings, which may 
include holding infants, picking up and/or carrying small children , 
assisting ambulatory patients in walking, pushing a wheelchair and 
assistance/transfer as needed. 
 Be physically capable of performing CPR. 
4. Cognitive Skills 
 Comprehend, integrate, and synthesize a large body of information and 
knowledge to analyze complex client problems. 
 Self-assess clinical and academic performance and reflect on performance 
accurately. 
 Self-evaluate, identify, and communicate limits of one’s own knowledge 
and skills; identify and utilize resources in order to successfully change, 
improve, and increase one’s knowledge and abilities. 
 Set goals for continuous improvement and for learning new concepts and 
skills; engage in reflective practice for improvement; solicit and respond 
appropriately to feedback. 
 Maintain attention and concentration for sufficient time to complete 
academic or clinical activities. 
 Measure, calculate, reason, analyze, judge, and synthesize as needed in the 
academic and clinical arenas. 
 Use logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of 
alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems prior to 
choice. 
 Recognize potentially hazardous materials, equipment and situations and 
proceed in a manner to minimize risk of injury to those in the area. 
 
5. Affective/Behavioral Skills 
 Demonstrate appreciation and respect for individual, social, and cultural 
differences in fellow students, colleagues, staff, clients, and significan t 
others. 
 Demonstrate appropriate behaviors, emotional stability, and attitudes to 
protect the safety and well-being of clients and classmates. 
 Demonstrate empathy and demonstrate commitment to the role of the 
Speech Language Pathologist. 
 Appropriately handle situations that may be emotionally, physically, or 
intellectually stressful.

 Demonstrate flexibility and the ability to adjust to changing situations and 
uncertainty in academic and clinical situations. 
 Demonstrate honesty, integrity, and professionalism. 
 Maintain confidentiality of client/patient information. 
 Dress appropriately and professionally. 
 Recognize the changing levels/roles of supervision as competence grows 
or settings change. 
 Manage the use of time effectively to complete professional and technical 
tasks within realistic time constraints. 
 Accept constructive criticism and respond by modification of behaviors. 
 Adhere to the Code of Ethics of the American Speech-Language Hearing 
Association and other relevant professional standards. 
 Develop and maintain a network of contacts, both inside and outside the 
field of speech-language pathology. 
 Ability to adapt your approach in a variety of situations, and work 
effectively with a wide cross-section of the community representing 
diverse backgrounds, cultures and socio-economic circumstances. 
FERPA 
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a federal law enacted in 
1974 to protect the privacy of student education records. The law applies to those 
institutions that regularly receive federal funding from the Department of Education and 
is enforced by the Family Policy Compliance Office of the U.S. Department of 
Education. To understand FERPA rights and protections, please see: 
http://www.utdallas.edu/registrar/legislative-policies/ferpa/ 
FERPA laws require faculty obtain written permission to release information about your 
academic records.  
If you encounter protected educational records, it is your duty to report the 
disclosure, and you are required to protect the confidentiality of that information by 
not sharing it with anyone who is not authorized to access that information.
