Graduation Policies
Timely Graduation
In accordance to Texas Education Code, section 51.9195, The University of Texas at Dallas provides
current undergraduate students information in understanding the beneﬁts of timely graduation, including
the average tuition costs and earnings lost when graduating more than four years. For additional
information, see www.utdallas.edu/costs-scholarships-aid/costs/tuition.
Application for Graduation
Students must complete the online application for graduation after meeting with their academic advisor.
The procedures and deadlines for submitting this application are listed in the online Comet Calendar and
Academic Calendar. Students are encouraged to apply at time of registration for their last semester.
Students who apply after the posted deadline may be required to pay a nonrefundable late fee.
Completion of the graduation application is an acknowledgement upon completion of all degree
requirements, the student will graduate at the end of the semester. Students cannot withdraw the online
application for graduation once it has been submitted. The University reserves the right to graduate any
student who has satisfactorily met all requirements for graduation. All in-progress courses on the
academic record must contain ﬁnal grades prior to certiﬁcation and posting of ﬁnal graduation status.
Once the graduation grade point average (GPA) is set, any change of grades or repeat of coursework
aﬀects only the overall GPA.
University Commencement/School Graduation
Ceremonies
University Commencement is held at the conclusion of the spring semester for students graduating in
the spring, as well as graduates from the preceding fall and summer semesters. School graduation
ceremonies are held at the conclusion of each spring and fall semester. Graduates participate in their
respective graduating semester School graduation ceremonies except summer; there is no summer
School graduation ceremonies. Summer graduates may participate in the following fall School graduation
ceremonies. Any questions regarding the University Commencement or School graduation ceremonies,
please review the graduation website.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Graduation Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/graduation 1/4

Graduation with Honors
Students who show particular distinction in scholarship at the University are aﬀorded the opportunity of
graduating with Collegium V Honors, Latin Honors and/or Major Honors. Only grades earned at The
University of Texas at Dallas are used in determining grade point average (GPA) for graduation with
honors.
Collegium V Honors Program
Students graduating with Collegium V Honors must complete at least 24 semester credit hours within
the Honors Program and maintain a 3.500 cumulative grade point average on at least 45 semester
credit hours of graded credit. In their senior year, students must complete a senior thesis or senior
project. They also must participate in a select number of extra-curricular events over the course of
their academic career.
Latin Honors
Graduates may earn one of three degrees of Latin Honors: summa cum laude, magna cum laude, or
cum laude. Requirements for graduation with Latin Honors are as follows:
A minimum of 45 UT Dallas graded semester credit hours are required. Each Latin Honors level
requires a minimum GPA to be attained over all coursework taken at The University of Texas at Dallas.
In the case of a student with a double major who wishes to graduate with Latin Honors, a single
honors designation will be awarded in the primary major. Students graduating with double degrees
who wish to receive honors for both degrees must complete separate honors requirements for each
degree.
The grade point requirements for Latin Honors are issued by the University in the summer of each
academic year and apply to graduates in the following academic year. The thresholds for each level of
honors are determined from a rolling average of the grades of all graduates for the previous six long
semesters. Averages are computed separately for each school within the University. The GPA that
represents the top ﬁve percent of all graduates in a particular school will be considered the threshold
for awarding summa cum laude honors. The GPA that deﬁnes the next 10 percent in each school will
be the lower limit for magna cum laude. The average grade that deﬁnes the next 15 percent in each
school will be considered the benchmark for awarding cum laude honors. A minimum GPA of 3.400 is
required for any Latin Honors.
Major Honors
Students may graduate with honors from their individual school based on participation in their
school's Honors Program as applicable. The school's Honors Program may provide two levels of
recognition, Honors and Distinction. All students must have completed a minimum of 30 graded
semester credit hours to qualify for Major Honors.
The requirements for school honor's recognition vary across schools. Students should review the
descriptions within the school section of the catalog. To graduate with school distinction honors,
students must complete an undergraduate thesis judged by faculty to be of exemplary quality.
Collegium V, Latin, and Major Honors are reported on students' transcripts and diplomas.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Graduation Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/graduation 2/4

Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
The life of a catalog is six years, counting the ﬁrst fall of any catalog as the starting point, or "year 0." For
example, the catalog in force 2011-2012 expires at the end of the academic year in 2018. If the catalog
in force at the time of a student's admission expires during the student's career at The University of
Texas at Dallas, the student must consult with an academic advisor to choose the most logical active
catalog the semester before expiration. If the student does not consult with an advisor before the catalog
expires, the advisor will select the most logical active catalog for the student.
Provided the requisite courses continue to be oﬀered, and given continuous enrollment, students are
bound by the Core Curriculum requirements of the catalog in force at the time of admission, within that
catalog's six-year limit. For students who change their major, the graduation requirements for that major
will be those stated in the catalog in force at the time of the change. The Core Curriculum requirements,
however, remain those of the catalog in force at the time of matriculation unless the student speciﬁcally
chooses those of a more recent catalog or the catalog in force at the time matriculation expires. Should
any requisite major courses cease to be oﬀered, substitutions would be made by the Associate Dean of
Undergraduate Education.
Should any requisite Core Curriculum courses cease to be oﬀered, substitutions will be made by the
Oﬃce of Undergraduate Education. Core Curriculum requirements must be met by all students pursuing
a baccalaureate degree at The University of Texas at Dallas, regardless of their major. A speciﬁc course
may be used to satisfy only one core requirement. Individual academic programs may require courses
contained in parts of the University Core Curriculum to satisfy particular degree requirements. Students
may be required to take extra courses if they fail to select these courses.
Administrative requirements such as minimum grade point requirements may change for all students
with the issuance of a new catalog.
Graduation Requirements
Each candidate for a baccalaureate degree must complete a minimum of 120 semester credit hours of
coursework. Some degree programs require more than 120 semester credit hours. Within this
requirement, students must complete the following:
At least 45 semester credit hours of upper-division (3000/4000 level) coursework, to include a
minimum of 12 semester credit hours of advanced courses in the major subject.
At least 45 semester credit hours must be taken at The University of Texas at Dallas.
No coursework may be taken oﬀ campus in a student's ﬁnal graduating semester. Exceptions may
only be granted for graduating students who are participating in a program with an approved MOU
between The University of Texas at Dallas and the partner institution.
All transfer credit must be submitted with oﬃcial transcripts prior to a student's ﬁnal graduating
semester. Exceptions may only be granted for graduating students who are participating in a
program with an approved MOU between The University of Texas at Dallas and the partner
institution.
All in-progress coursework must be completed in order to graduate. Exceptions may only be granted
for graduating students who are participating in a program with an approved MOU between The
University of Texas at Dallas and the partner institution.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Graduation Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/graduation 3/4

A maximum of three semester credit hours of physical education activity can be applied toward
degree requirements.
A minimum GPA of 2.000 on a 4.000 scale (C average) is required in the major and related courses,
in any declared minor, and overall. Major preparatory classes are included in the calculation of the
major GPA. Only grades earned at The University of Texas at Dallas are used in calculating this GPA.
Students must satisfactorily complete all degree requirements speciﬁed by the school or college in
which the degree is oﬀered. (See "Academic Degree Requirements") In many instances, the
college/school/department academic program requirements may exceed the University core
requirements.
Students must satisfy the Core Curriculum. (See Core Curriculum for full description.)
A candidate for a degree must be enrolled at UT Dallas during the semester in which the Oﬃce of
the Registrar conﬁrms completion of degree requirements. Students may register in absentia if
enrollment in a course is not required. (See "In Absentia Registration" for further information.)
Students must complete an oﬃcial degree plan prepared by the academic unit, pursuant to the
required ﬁling of degree plan, Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685. The degree plan must be on
ﬁle no later than the completion of 45 or more earned semester credit hours. The degree plan will
be reviewed at the completion of 75 semester credit hours.
Students will be notiﬁed by the University that ﬁling a degree plan is required by state law and
prevent students from obtaining oﬃcial transcripts until the degree plan is ﬁled.
To qualify for a double degree or a double major from The University of Texas at Dallas, please
review "Other Degree Requirements."
Note: General and speciﬁc requirements for degrees in undergraduate programs may be altered in
subsequent catalogs.
Updated: 2025-05-26 08:22:47 v5.d3920e
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Graduation Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/graduation 4/4
