Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1095
The oﬃcial academic transcript is a student's complete academic record. If the student enrolled at
The University of Texas at Dallas as both an undergraduate and graduate student, then the
undergraduate and graduate transcripts are issued together.
Academic review and approval of any new program or revision of an existing program (degree, major,
minor, concentration, designation, and academic certiﬁcate) must be secured through the governance
process as notated within the following policies: UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Micro-
credentials, Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion, UTDPP1008 Council of
Undergraduate Education, UTDPP1023 Committee on Educational Policy, and UTDPP1053 Council
on Graduate Education, and the Academic Senate. Upon ﬁnal approval, the new or revised programs
will be published in the academic catalog. Depending on the student's undeclared or declared major
status, the program plan (major and, as applicable, minor, concentration, designation, and/or
academic certiﬁcate) will be recorded on the oﬃcial transcript.
The Oﬃce of the Registrar retains a listing of approved items recorded on the oﬃcial transcript. At
the minimum, the oﬃcial transcript includes the student's legal name, the student's identiﬁcation
number, transfer credit summary, credits earned by examination, term by term course history
including earned units and grade point average (GPA), cumulative earned units and GPA, and degrees
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
UTDPP1095
Official Academic Transcript Notation
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1095 Ofﬁcial Academic Transcript Notation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1095 1/3

awarded by The University of Texas at Dallas including majors, concentrations, minors, designations,
academic certiﬁcates, and honors, as applicable.
Texas state law requires public institutions to include the following notations on the undergraduate
oﬃcial transcript: Texas Success Initiative status, Core Curriculum Completion notation and Six
Drop notation.
In accordance with University policy, diplomas will show the oﬃcial name of the degree and major
and if applicable, academic honors. Diplomas will not display minors, concentrations, designations,
and academic certiﬁcates.
The Responsible University Oﬃcial (RUO) is the University Registrar.
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1095 Ofﬁcial Academic Transcript Notation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1095 2/3

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1095 Ofﬁcial Academic Transcript Notation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1095 3/3
