UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Catalog
About the Undergraduate Catalog
The University of Texas at Dallas Undergraduate Online Catalog is the document of authority for all
students, faculty, and staﬀ. The catalog intends to reﬂect current academic policies, procedures, degree
oﬀerings, course descriptions, and other information pertinent to undergraduate study at The University of
Texas at Dallas. It is not intended to nor does it contain all regulations that relate to students. The
provisions of this catalog do not constitute a contract, express or implied, between any applicant, student,
or faculty member and The University of Texas at Dallas or The University of Texas System.
Students are governed by the catalog under which they were enrolled or, at a student's option, the catalog
of any subsequent year in which that student was in residence. Please refer to the academic requirements
and procedures sections for more information.
While every eﬀort has been made to make this catalog as complete and accurate as possible, The
University of Texas at Dallas reserves the right to change the provisions of this catalog at any time,
including, but not limited to: withdraw courses at any time, to change fees or tuition, calendar, curriculum,
course oﬀerings, degree requirements, graduation procedures, and any other requirements aﬀecting
students as necessitated by university, legislative or regental action. Changes will become eﬀective
whenever the proper authorities so determine and will apply to both prospective students and those
already enrolled. Students normally are entitled to graduate under the degree provisions of the catalog in
eﬀect at the time of their ﬁrst completed semester of enrollment.
Students are held individually responsible for complying with all requirements of the rules and regulations
of the University and the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System. Failure to read and comply
with policies, regulations, and procedures will not exempt a student from whatever penalties the student
may incur. Many departments and programs issue program manuals, procedures and policy manuals,
handbooks, and other informational publications for students and faculty in its programs. These
publications provide detailed and useful information; however, they are not statements of oﬃcial policy or
binding contracts of The University of Texas at Dallas or The University of Texas System. In all matters, the
Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System, the Handbook of
Operating Procedures of The University of Texas at Dallas, and the Undergraduate Catalog of The
University of Texas at Dallas shall supersede departmental, program, or college publications.
The online version of The University of Texas at Dallas Undergraduate Catalog is the oﬃcial version. The
online catalog will be updated periodically and will contain all major policy changes that occur during the
2025-2026 catalog cycle. The oﬃcial publication date of this catalog is June 2025.
Accreditation
9/29/26, 7:35 PM 2025-2026 Undergraduate Catalog - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/home 1/2

The University of Texas at Dallas (UT Dallas) is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctorate degrees. UT
Dallas also oﬀers credentials such as certiﬁcates at approved degree levels. Questions about the
accreditation of UT Dallas may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or
by using information available on SACSCOC's website (www.sacscoc.org).
Equal Educational Opportunity Statement
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to providing a welcoming, respectful, and inclusive
educational, living, and working environment for all members of the University community. We prohibit all
forms of discrimination and harassment in accordance with federal and state laws, ensuring equal
opportunities in employment, education, services, activities, and programs.
Discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, age, national origin, disability, genetic information, or veteran status is strictly
prohibited. Retaliation for reporting, ﬁling a complaint, participating in an investigation or proceeding, or
opposing unlawful practices is also prohibited. No person will be excluded from participation in, denied
the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any University-sponsored program or activity.
NC-SARA Reciprocity Agreements
The University of Texas at Dallas has been approved to participate in the National Council for State
Authorization Reciprocity Agreements.
Catalog Publication Date: June 2025
Updated: 2025-04-22 10:02:19 v3.0358a9
9/29/26, 7:35 PM 2025-2026 Undergraduate Catalog - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/home 2/2
