Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1047
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to regular, substantive reviews of its academic
administrators and to involvement of members of the faculty, staﬀ, and students in these reviews.
I. Policy:
A. The Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents, Rule 30501, Section 1 requires annual
evaluation of all U.T. System employees to be used for the improvement of performance,
promotion consideration, and merit salary review. Rule 31101, Section 3 of the Rules also
requires that all academic administrators below the level of President receive periodic
evaluations that include faculty, staﬀ, and student input. To simplify the schedule of the review
of academic administrators and to provide substantial feedback, every academic administrator at
U.T. Dallas will be formally reviewed three years after the initial administrative appointment and
at least every six years thereafter. The review shall be comprehensive and include input from
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Preamble
UTDPP1047
Evaluation of Academic Administrators
Policy Statement
This policy is currently under review.
Preamble

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 1/6

faculty, staﬀ, and students, and where appropriate alumni, community leaders, and other sources
identiﬁed in the charge to the committee from the President or Provost. Comments by full-time
faculty members in the appropriate academic unit will provide the faculty's response to the
academic administrator's performance in that unit. Faculty and staﬀ members in an academic
unit are encouraged, moreover, to provide information to an academic administrator's
supervising oﬃcer at any time regarding that academic administrator's performance.
B. For the purpose of this policy, an academic administrator is deﬁned as an individual who has
either direct and signiﬁcant responsibility for determination of the duties, support, and/or
compensation for faculty or has supervisory responsibilities over major academic support
functions such as the library and research. In the current administrative structure at U.T. Dallas,
academic administrators include the Provost, the Vice President for Research and Innovation, the
Dean of Graduate Education, the Dean of Undergraduate Education, the School Deans, the
Executive Director of the Callier Center for Communication Disorders, the Dean of Libraries, the
Dean of the Hobson Wildenthal Honors College, the School's Department or Program Heads,
and the Associate Deans in each School. In departments in which multiple majors are oﬀered and
each major has a program head, program heads and department heads should each be evaluated.
II. Procedures:
A. Responsibility:
1. The President has responsibility, directly or through designees, for appointment, review, and
dismissal of all administrative oﬃcers, including the Provost, Vice Presidents, Deans, Directors,
Department Heads, Program Heads, and Associate Deans.
2. The responsibility for the review of an academic administrator, with signiﬁcant involvement of
and input from full-time faculty will, in general, be delegated by the President to that
administrator's immediate supervisor. Thus, the Provost and School Deans normally will
conduct the reviews of the academic administrators whom they supervise. The Provost may
delegate some aspects of the review process to a Vice or Associate Provost.
B. Review procedures:
1. Reviews will normally be initiated by the administrator's immediate supervisor and may occur
at any time of the academic year. The immediate supervisor will be responsible for the
development of a timetable for the review process. The administrator being evaluated has the
option to submit a summary statement of accomplishments limited to their administrative role
and period of review (3 pages at most). This statement needs to be submitted to the Oﬃce of
Provost within 10 working days of receiving the review notice and will be made available to
faculty and staﬀ eligible to provide feedback.
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 2/6

2. The immediate supervisor or designee will be responsible for the distribution and collection of
faculty and staﬀ comment forms and for the analysis of the responses on these forms.
3. Faculty and staﬀ comment forms will be sent by the immediate supervisor to all full-time
faculty and staﬀ members in the unit of the academic administrator being evaluated. In the
case of the review of the Dean of Libraries and Undergraduate and Graduate Deans, the
Provost will distribute faculty and staﬀ comment forms to all full-time faculty and full-time
Academic Aﬀairs staﬀ. In the case of the review of the Provost or the Vice President for
Research and Innovation, the President will distribute comment forms to all full-time faculty
and to all full-time staﬀ of the administrative units led by the Provost or the Vice President for
Research and Innovation. In the case of the review of a school dean or the Dean of the Hobson
Wildenthal Honors College, faculty comment forms will be sent to full-time faculty outside of
the dean's school upon a request made to the Provost's Oﬃce. Faculty comment forms from
faculty within a school will be distinguishable from those submitted by faculty outside the
school. In the case of Associate Deans, Department Heads, and Program Heads, the Dean of
the School will distribute faculty and staﬀ comment forms to all full-time faculty and staﬀ
within the school or department as appropriate.
4. In addition, the immediate supervisor or designee will contact relevant faculty and staﬀ
members to solicit group interviews. Individuals may also request one-on-one interviews.
5. The immediate supervisor or designee will also interview students from appropriate student
organizations and will hold an open forum as an additional opportunity to garner relevant
student feedback. Students with declared majors within a particular school will be invited as
relevant to share feedback via the open forum speciﬁc to their major's program head,
department head, and/or school dean. All graduate and undergraduate students will be invited
to provide comments via open forums for the Graduate and Undergraduate Deans,
respectively. These open forums may be held in person or via remote conferencing software.
6. To the extent allowed by law, supervisors will not reveal the identity of the sources of all
written comments received in connection with the review of an academic administrator. No
anonymous material other than the oﬃcial surveys that correspond with this policy will be
considered as part of the review. Information collected as part of the interviews and/or open
forums will be summarized and not attributed to speciﬁc individuals.
7. After the immediate supervisor has received and analyzed comments, as well as the
summarized feedback from interviews and/or open forums, the immediate supervisor will
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 3/6

meet with the academic administrator being reviewed to discuss the supervisor's analysis of
these comments and any recommended actions as a result of the review.
8. Following the immediate supervisor's meeting with the academic administrator being
reviewed, the supervisor will convene a meeting to communicate his/her response to the
review to the faculty members and direct report staﬀ in the relevant academic or
administrative unit. In the case of a review of the Dean of Graduate Education, Dean of
Undergraduate Education, the deans of the schools, the Dean of the Hobson Wildenthal
Honors College, and the Dean of Libraries, the Provost's response will be communicated to the
Academic Senate and to Staﬀ Council. The review of the Vice President for Research and
Innovation and the Provost will be reported to the Senate and to the Staﬀ Council by the
President of the University.
9. Upon the completion of reviews of School Deans, Department or Program Heads, and
Associate Deans, these administrators will meet with the faculties of the relevant academic
units to discuss issues raised by faculty in the review process. Direct report staﬀ will also meet
with the administrators.
10. All reviews should be complete by August 31 (end of academic year). At the conclusion of
the review process, the supervisor will forward the academic administrator's review ﬁle
and the supervisor's written report containing the substance of the review to her/his own
immediate supervisor.
11. A summary of the report will be provided to the administrator under review and to the
administrator's supervisor and will be made available to The University of Texas System's
Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Aﬀairs.
C. Faculty Evaluation of Academic Administrators Survey Form
1. Immediate supervisors will distribute, at a minimum, the relevant university survey forms that
are attached to this policy in the review of an academic administrator under this policy.
2. Any deletion or modiﬁcation of the questions in the attached survey forms requires approval
by the Academic Senate and by the Staﬀ Council for staﬀ questions.
Policy Form: UTDPP1047 - Faculty Evaluation of Academic Administrators Surveys
Policy Form: UTDPP1047 - Staﬀ Evaluation of Academic Administrators Surveys
CONTACT US
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 4/6

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 5/6

© The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1047 Evaluation of Academic Administrators | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1047 6/6
