Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1064
Tenure protects scholars and teachers from adverse actions by those who disagree with their ﬁndings
and teachings; tenure also provides faculty with the long-term security which is vital if they are to
undertake high potential, lengthy, risky research; thus, it discourages intellectual censorship and
encourages the search for truth, thereby beneﬁting society at large. However, regular review of all
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Preamble
Deﬁnitions
Categories and Standards of Evaluation
Procedures for All Faculty
Procedures for School Faculty
Procedures for Concurrent and Administrative...
Uses of the Evaluations
Review of PPE Process
Non-Interference with Rights
UTDPP1064
Procedures Governing Periodic Performance
Evaluation of Tenured Faculty
Policy Statement
Preamble

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 1/11

faculty, including those with tenure, is fundamental to the advancement of the University. This
document describes procedures for review of tenured faculty.
Nothing in this policy shall infringe on tenure, academic freedom, due process, or other protected
rights, or require faculty to reestablish their credentials for tenure.
A. Faculty Categories
1. School Faculty: School faculty are those faculty members who report to a School Dean, including
those who report through Department Heads to a School Dean.
2. Administrative Faculty: Administrative faculty are those faculty members who do not report,
directly or indirectly, to a School Dean
3. Concurrent Faculty: Concurrent faculty are those faculty members who, for part - but not all - of
their assignments report, directly or indirectly to a School Dean.
B. Duties: For the purposes of this document, duties (to the University) are activities to which a
faculty member is assigned and for which the University provides infrastructure and ﬁscal
resources. Most faculty members mentor individual students, teach organized classes or
laboratories, engage in research or creative activities, and serve the University, the community, and
their profession through committee assignments and elective or appointive oﬃces. Some also
engage in clinical or administrative activities. The exact ratio of these duties varies considerably
from one faculty member to another. The ratio of duties can also vary over time. At the time tenure
is awarded, duly appointed faculty committees and responsible administrators have determined
that a faculty member has performed adequately in both teaching and research or creative
activities, and has shown excellence in one of those arenas. Service expectations may change after
tenure is awarded, particularly in the case of senior faculty. When a School Faculty member wants
to assume a set of duties signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the norm typical of his or her instructional
unit, the faculty member should seek approval for such action from the School Dean or the Dean's
delegate (Department Head, when appropriate). A Dean does not have authority to approve or
disapprove speciﬁc research topics, but does exercise approval authority when a faculty member
proposes to engage in a set of duties which is atypical for the instructional unit. If such approval is
obtained, the faculty member's performance will be judged against the approved set of duties.
Otherwise a faculty member will be judged against the duties typical for his or her instructional
unit. The modiﬁed set of duties does not go into eﬀect until the Dean notiﬁes the faculty of the
Definitions
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 2/11

School or Department as appropriate. Concurrent and Administrative Faculty should consult with
the individual(s) to whom they report in order to construct a written description of their set of
duties. To the extent that their duties parallel those of School Faculty, Concurrent Faculty are
expected to meet the norm for other faculty in their instructional unit.
C. A Periodic Performance Evaluation (PPE) is the evaluation process described in this document.
D. The PPE Review File is the ﬁle created for the purpose of the Periodic Performance Evaluation. It
may contain material from a variety of sources within the university community, including material
copied from the faculty member's permanent academic ﬁle.
E. The PPE Evaluator (Evaluator) is the University oﬃcial responsible for preparing the PPE Review
File and for making the ﬁnding. For School Faculty the Evaluator is the Dean of their school. For
Concurrent Faculty, the Evaluators are their School Dean and the other administrator to whom they
report. For Administrative Faculty, the Evaluator is the administrator to whom they report.
F. Finding: A ﬁnding is the Evaluator's written recommendation resulting from the Periodic
Performance Evaluation of a tenured faculty member.
The ﬁnding must evaluate the faculty member's performance in the activities in the current set of
duties and assess the faculty member's overall performance. Rule 31102, Evaluation of Tenured
Faculty, of the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents speciﬁes four possible categories of
evaluation: exceeds expectations, meets expectations, fails to meet expectations, or unsatisfactory.
The meanings of these levels and the criteria for meeting them should be generally the same as in the
annual reviews, as follows:
A. "Exceeds expectations": This judgment should reﬂect a clear and signiﬁcant level of
accomplishment beyond normal expectations for faculty in the discipline and unit over the period
of evaluation. Normally, a judgment that performance exceeds expectations should follow from
several or most of the annual reviews concluding that the faculty member's performance exceeds
expectations, but it is entirely possible that a person's cumulative accomplishment over the
previous period appeared more signiﬁcant when taken as a whole than it did it any given year.
Conversely, it is also possible that previous judgments of "exceeds expectations" in annual reviews
were based on apparent promise that did not materialize.
Categories and Standards of Evaluation
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 3/11

B. "Meets expectations": In general, the judgment that a faculty member's performance meets
expectations means that they are meeting the scholarly expectations entailed in their appointment
and doing their share of the work of their unit and the university. As with "exceeds expectations" a
judgment that a person's performance meets expectations would normally follow from a
predominance of similar judgments in their annual reviews, but it is entirely possible either that the
cumulative eﬀect of the faculty member's work is greater or less great than it appeared to be in
each year separately.
C. "Fails to meet expectations": We do not expect everything we try to be a success. We do, however,
expect each other to try. So indications of failure to meet expectations in scholarly productivity
could be a consistent record of failing to publish with no record of signiﬁcant work in progress, no
other creative productivity, and no compensating production under way. Indications of failure to
meet expectations in teaching would be an exceptional level of complaints, failure to meet classes,
failure to update material for classes from time to time in order to assure adequate preparation of
students for the ﬁeld, unfavorable peer evaluation of teaching if the unit arranges for such
evaluation, or failure to carry a normal teaching load. Indications of failure to meet expectations in
service would be refusal to accept appointments or failure to exercise diligence and responsibility
in carrying out appointments. A judgment of failure to meet expectations may be accompanied
with advice for improvements or modiﬁcations in the faculty member's performance. The ﬁnding
may be accompanied by a plan for allocation of additional resources intended to enhance the
faculty member's performance.
D. "Unsatisfactory": This judgment would indicate a failure to meet expectations after written advice
or other eﬀorts to provide correction or assistance have been oﬀered, or as a result of engaging in
professional misconduct or dereliction of duty. Unsatisfactory performance must be deﬁned
relative to the set of duties, which can vary across Departments and Schools and among individual
faculty within Programs and Schools (Deﬁnitions Section, 2.). However, it usually entails dereliction
and/or incompetence in one or more of the faculty member's duties. Examples may include but are
not limited to: (a) a failure to meet classes, (b) a failure to engage in remedial activities to improve
teaching eﬀorts or a failure to beneﬁt from such remedial activities, (c) a refusal to accept teaching
assignments within the faculty member's expertise, (d) a failure to engage in research and/or
creative activity which may include submission of grants or scholarly activity for publication, and (e)
a failure to shoulder a reasonable share of administrative work.
The ﬁnding must be supported by a written, detailed evaluation. For Concurrent and Administrative
Faculty, a ﬁnding of "unsatisfactory" may result in the termination of the administrative assignment
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 4/11

and the return of the faculty member to School Faculty status.
A. All faculty members are subject to annual review, in accordance with Regent's Rule 31102. Periodic
performance evaluation as described here applies only to tenured faculty. Procedures for ongoing
periodic evaluation of non-tenure-track faculty are described in UTDPP 1062, General Standards
and Procedures For Review of Nontenure-System Faculty.
B. It is expected that Deans, Department Heads, and other administrators will make use of the annual
review process to identify faculty whose performance does not meet the general performance
levels of their unit and to provide those individuals with advice, support, and/or warnings, as
appropriate. Written evaluations used in annual reviews will be subsequently included in PPE
Review Files. Countersigning or other methods shall be used to certify that the faculty member has
been made aware of these evaluations.
C. Periodic Performance Evaluations for tenured faculty are to be conducted every six years except in
rare circumstances such as overlap with approved leave, promotion, review for appointment to an
endowed position, or review described in the following paragraph. The existence of the PPE
process does not preclude administrative action based on annual reviews or other good cause.
D. Administrative Faculty are to be reviewed every ﬁve years, as described in Policy UTDPP1047
Evaluation of Academic Administrators, which review is to be concurrent with the review described
in this document.
E. The Periodic Performance Evaluation shall include review of the faculty member's duties such
as teaching, research, service, administration, and, for faculty with clinical responsibilities,
patient care.
F. Individual notice of intent to conduct a Periodic Performance Evaluation must be given to a
tenured faculty member at least six months prior to the initiation of the Evaluation, which begins
September 15 with the submission of materials by the faculty member. One month before the
initiation of the Evaluation, the Evaluator who is conducting the evaluation shall notify the faculty
within the School and the Speaker of the Faculty, who in turn will inform the Academic Senate
membership and the President of the Student Government Association about the PPE, who is to be
evaluated, and the PPE procedures.
G. The PPE Review File shall be constructed as follows:
Procedures for All Faculty
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 5/11

1. The PPE process is generally intended to be an internal review of the faculty member's
performance of his/her range of duties.
2. The faculty member being evaluated shall submit to his/her Evaluator or arrange for submission
of (a) a resume, including a summary statement of professional accomplishments, (b) where
existing, the approved range of duties, (c) results of annual evaluations for the previous six years,
where available, and (d) evaluations of teaching from students and other sources, in accordance
with policy of the relevant instructional unit. The faculty member may provide copies of a
statement of professional goals, a proposed professional development plan, and any other
materials the faculty member deems appropriate.
3. The Evaluator may add to the ﬁle (a) any material from the faculty member's permanent
academic ﬁles which he/she deems appropriate and (b) any signed, written material which he/she
deems appropriate to the PPE process.
4. In addition, the Evaluator shall add to the ﬁle any signed, written material received through
relevant sources such as faculty, students, and the Student Government Association.
5. No anonymous material, except for teaching evaluations obtained in accordance with University
policy, may be included in the ﬁle.
6. At any point in the PPE process, the faculty member being evaluated may see the PPE Review
File upon reasonable notice, may copy material contained in the PPE Review File, and may
supplement the ﬁle. The Evaluator must notify the faculty member under review of any material
which he/she adds to the PPE File, and the faculty member is entitled to 10 working days to
supplement the ﬁle with a written response.
A. All evaluations must be based only on material in the PPE Review File.
B. After the end of the faculty member's response period (Procedures for School Faculty, 6), the
Dean shall make a written preliminary evaluation and shall send that evaluation to the faculty
member, the relevant Department Head (if appropriate) and to the Faculty Personnel Review
Committee (FPRC).
C. The Program Head (if appropriate) and FPRC shall each examine the PPE Review File, and each
shall provide the faculty member under evaluation with the opportunity to discuss the PPE Review
File and the preliminary evaluation. The Program Head (if appropriate) and the FPRC will
Procedures for School Faculty
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 6/11

subsequently provide a written response to the preliminary evaluation. The faculty member under
review may also provide a response. The responses become part of the PPE Review File.
D. After receiving the responses of the faculty member under review (if any), the Department Head (if
appropriate) and the FPRC, the Dean shall re-examine the PPE Review File and make a written
ﬁnding no later than November 15, unless the President approves an extension.
E. The Dean's ﬁnding and the response of the FPRC must be communicated in writing to the faculty
member and the Department Head (if appropriate). The faculty member will be given the
opportunity to discuss the ﬁnding with the Dean and will be allowed 10 working days to respond in
writing to the ﬁnding. The ﬁnding and the faculty member's written response become part of the
PPE Review File. After 10 working days, the Dean shall send the PPE Review File to the Provost,
who will notify the Dean and faculty member of its receipt within 10 working days.
F. If the Dean has made a ﬁnding of "unsatisfactory", the Provost shall notify the Chair of the
Committee on Faculty Standing and Conduct and forward the PPE Review File to the Committee
on Faculty Standing and Conduct within 10 working days.
G. The Committee on Faculty Standing and Conduct shall examine the PPE Review File and prepare a
written report which addresses, at least, the following issues:
1. Since tenure carries the expectation of continuing employment, the University bears the burden
of proof in removing tenure. The report shall assess the degree to which the PPE Review File
demonstrates that the tenured faculty member's performance has been suﬃciently detrimental
to the University and/or its students for a suﬃciently unsatisfactory that termination under the
procedures of Rule 31008, concerning Termination for Good Cause, of the Regents' Rules and
Regulations, is a possibility.
2. In the event that the Committee on Faculty Standing and Conduct concurs with the ﬁnding of
"unsatisfactory", its report shall address the advisability of an additional review period and the
duration and performance expectations for such review period. The report becomes part of the
PPE Review File.
H. After receipt of the report from the Committee on Faculty Standing and Conduct, the Provost shall
send copies of the report to the faculty member and the Dean and allow 10 working days to
receive written responses, which become part of the PPE Review File. The Provost shall review the
PPE Review File and decide on one of the following options as an appropriate action:
1. Conversion of ﬁnding of "unsatisfactory" to a ﬁnding of "meets expectations" and termination of
the PPE process for the faculty member;
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 7/11

2. Acceptance of the ﬁnding of "unsatisfactory" and establishment of an additional review period
including its duration and performance expectations;
3. Acceptance of the ﬁnding of "unsatisfactory" and recommendation to the President that charges
for termination of the faculty member be initiated in accord with the Regents' Rules and
Regulations, Rule 31008 concerning Termination for Good Cause.
The Provost shall notify the Dean and the faculty member of his or her decision. The Provost may
issue a preliminary assessment and provide a period for comment from the Dean and faculty
member prior to making a decision.
I. If the Provost decides that an additional review period is appropriate, the faculty member's
performance during the additional review period is to be governed by an additional review period
document, which should specify the faculty member's duties, resources to be made available, and
the timetable and criteria for interim and end-of-period evaluations. The construction of the
extended review period document is the responsibility of the Dean who shall consult with the
faculty member, the Department Head (if appropriate), the School Personnel Review Committee,
and the Provost prior to issuing the document.
J. At the end of the additional review period, a review in the manner of a Periodic Performance
Evaluation is to be conducted, with the faculty member having access to the same procedures and
protections which would be in place for a Periodic Performance Evaluation, except that the Dean
shall forward her/his assessment directly to the Provost, who must now choose either option 8.1 or
option 8.3 from Section on Procedures for School Faculty above. The Committee on Faculty
Standing and Conduct does not review the ﬁle.
K. The entire PPE process is conﬁdential. However, if the faculty member makes comment in a public
forum on the results of the evaluation, then the University, through its administration, may also
make public comment.
A. Concurrent Faculty: Concurrent faculty will be evaluated every ﬁve years, in which the Periodic
Performance Evaluation as described in this policy will be conducted concurrently with the
Evaluation of Academic Administrators as described in UTDPP 1047. The Evaluators of a
Concurrent Faculty member shall make separate ﬁndings in their evaluations of the duties arising
from the faculty member's School Faculty and Administrative Faculty roles. The procedures in the
Section on Procedures for School Faculty of this document shall govern the PPE process in so far as
Procedures for Concurrent and Administrative Faculty
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 8/11

the School Faculty role is evaluated. The procedures in this section on Procedures for Concurrent
and Administrative Faculty shall govern the PPE process in so far as the Administrative role is
evaluated, except that a Concurrent Faculty member for whom the School Faculty ﬁnding is that
their work meets or exceeds expectations shall not be subjected to the PPE process until the
normal six year review cycle if they do not continue with their administrative responsibilities.
B. Administrative Faculty: Administrative faculty will be evaluated every ﬁve years, in which the
Periodic Performance Evaluation as described in this policy will be conducted concurrently with the
Evaluation of Academic Administrators as described in UTDPP1047. The Evaluator of an
Administrative Faculty member must prepare a written evaluation of the faculty member, provide a
copy to the faculty member, provide the opportunity for the faculty member to discuss the
evaluation with him/her, and provide the faculty member with the opportunity to place a written
statement in the PPE Review File. A ﬁnding of "fails to meet expectations" or "unsatisfactory" by
the Evaluator may result in the termination of the administrative appointment and the return of the
faculty member to School Faculty status. Such faculty must be reviewed under the School Faculty
provisions of this document in the ﬁrst review cycle after three full academic years have passed
since their return to School Faculty status.
A. The periodic performance evaluation is not intended to supplant the use of ad hoc committees to
consider faculty members for promotion or appointment to chaired professorships, or the
procedures for termination of tenured faculty with due process guarantees as required by the
Regents Rules and Regulations Rule 31008. It should not require either the level of documentation
required for an ad hoc committee or the intensity of scrutiny. The evaluation may, however, include
a recommendation that such a committee be formed for further consideration, depending on the
judgment reached. Possible recommendations for the four levels of evaluation are as follow.
B. An evaluation that a faculty member's performance exceeds expectations may warrant
consideration of possible forms of exceptional recognition. For an Associate Professor, it may
suggest accelerated consideration for promotion to Professor. For a Professor, it may warrant
asking if compensation is consistent with the level of accomplishment and recognition, or a change
of work assignments to a position with greater responsibility recognition.
C. An evaluation that a faculty member's performance meets expectations generally should imply that
present duties and recognition are appropriate.
Uses of the Evaluations
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 9/11

D. An evaluation that a faculty member's performance fails to meet expectation may be accompanied
by advice to the faculty member, as noted, or a recommendation for administrative action such as
development of a speciﬁc plan for providing remediation or an adjustment of duties.
E. If a faculty member with an administrative or a concurrent appointment fails to meet
expectations, the evaluation may appropriately include recommendations for changes to their
administrative duties.
F. An evaluation of "unsatisfactory" may be accompanied by a recommendation for further
administrative action or proceedings leading to possible termination.
The President is to review the results of each year's Periodic Performance Evaluations with equal or
above rank faculty of the Academic Council. In this review, the President shall present the results
without identiﬁcation of individual faculty members. If, however, a faculty member has made public
comment about the results of his/her PPE, the President may discuss that individual's case with the
Academic Council. The Academic Council is to prepare and present to the Academic Senate, the CAO,
and the President a report, in which the faculty reviewed are not identiﬁed, which contains
recommendations about the Periodic Performance Evaluation process.
The adoption of the Procedures for Periodic Performance Evaluation by The University of Texas At
Dallas Academic Senate shall not be interpreted or applied to infringe on tenure, academic freedom,
due process, or other protected rights.
Evaluations of faculty under this policy may be appealed through the Faculty Grievance Procedure
described in UTDPP1050.
Review of PPE Process
Non-Interference with Rights
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 10/11

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1064 Procedures Governing Periodic Performance Evaluation of Tenured Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1064 11/11
