Course Policies
Course Oﬀerings
UT Dallas oﬀers many courses in a wide range of subject disciplines. Course oﬀerings may include some
online or blended (online and face-to-face) courses, which are listed in the CourseBook schedule. There
are also additional oﬀerings through the UT Online Consortium. However, the University does not oﬀer
correspondence courses.
Auditing Courses
Auditing allows a student to observe the instruction of a course without earning credit. The following
courses may not be audited: Computer Science and Engineering courses, Geoscience courses, Physical
Education courses, Creative Writing courses, Foreign Language courses, Studio/Ensemble courses, online
courses, and any course for which there is a lab fee. Participation, discussion and access to online
materials is at the discretion of the instructor. Auditing does not grant credit, but does grant the privilege
of hearing and observing course information.
Beginning the ﬁrst day of classes through Census Day, a student may obtain an audit form at the Oﬃce
of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, ﬁrst ﬂoor customer service area. Please consult the
Oﬃce of the Registrar's FAQ for more detailed audit procedures and associated non-refundable fees.
Course Load
The standard course load is 15 semester credit hours for a long semester and 12 semester credit hours in
the summer.
Students wishing to register for more than 19 and up to 21 semester credit hours in a long semester or
15 semester credit hours in the summer must have the permission of the Associate Dean of their school;
undergraduates with an exploratory major or pre-major may seek that permission from the Dean of
Undergraduate Education. Students authorized to enroll in more than 19 up to 21 semester credit hours
in a long semester or 15 semester credit hours in the summer may not withdraw from any class without
permission of the Associate Dean of their school or the Dean of Undergraduate Education for those
students without declared majors. Failure to secure that permission before withdrawing from a class will
limit the student to a maximum of 19 semester credit hours in future semesters.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 1/6

In considering course load, students must be sensitive to special considerations such as degree
requirements, ﬁnancial aid, visa status, and family health insurance, which typically require registration in
a minimum number of semester credit hours per term in order to maintain eligibility.
For certiﬁcation purposes, UT Dallas uses the following criteria for undergraduate students:
Full-time status - 12 semester credit hours
Three quarter-time status - 9 semester credit hours
Half-time status - 6 semester credit hours
Summer semester status is determined by total oﬃcial enrolled semester credit hours for all the summer
sessions.
Guidelines for Course Numbering
To guide students in the selection of courses and proper sequencing over their college career, the
following guidelines should be considered:
1. Lower-division undergraduate courses
1xxx courses are considered to be primarily taken in the freshman year, and are introductory
courses. These courses may generally be taken by any student.
2xxx courses are considered to be primarily taken in the sophomore year, and provide a
foundation in a discipline area. Some courses are major speciﬁc, though most can be taken by
any student.
2. Upper-division undergraduate courses
Upper-division courses may require prerequisites, recommended course sequencing, and/or
faculty or department permissions. The University and some majors have minimum requirements
for the number of upper-division semester credit hours. Programs may require major prep course
completion prior to taking upper-division courses. Programs and instructors will assure that the
content and prerequisites of independent study, research, and topics classes are appropriate for
the level of the class.
3xxx courses are considered to be primarily taken in the junior year. These courses are designed
to reﬁne the skills and knowledge gained in the lower-division courses, and are generally speciﬁc
to a major ﬁeld of study. Some courses may be restricted to speciﬁc majors and/or to junior level
standing.
4xxx courses are considered to be taken primarily in the senior year. These courses are designed
to provide mastery in the ﬁeld of study and more depth and speciﬁcity that the 3xxx courses.
Some courses may be restricted to speciﬁc majors and /or to senior level standing.
Course Numbering System
UT Dallas courses are assigned an abbreviation of the name of the subject area followed by a four-digit
course number. The ﬁrst digit of the course number deﬁnes the general level of the course, i.e., a 1 or 2
indicates that the course is of undergraduate freshman or sophomore level respectively, and a 3 or 4
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 2/6

indicates that the course is of undergraduate junior or senior level, respectively. Graduate courses begin
with the digits 5 through 8.
The second digit of the course number indicates the semester credit hour value of the course. A course is
given semester credit hour values according to the number of hours per week the course meets; the
typical course is three semester credit hours. The type of course (for example, lecture, laboratory, or
seminar) and its meeting times determine the number of meetings per week and the length of each
meeting. For additional information on semester credit hours, see policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1090.
A "V" in the second position of the course number denotes a variable semester credit hour course. The
online class schedule may specify the semester credit hours available for a variable course during any
given semester.
The ﬁnal two digits give the course a unique number within a subject area.
In some instances of undergraduate course descriptions, a second course preﬁx and number in
parentheses follows the ﬁrst. The second course preﬁx and number designate the State of Texas
Common Course Numbering System (TCCNS) equivalents when available. TCCNS is a standard set of
designations for academic courses. Most Texas community colleges and universities have adopted this
system to facilitate the transfer of academic credit from one institution to another. Wherever possible,
UT Dallas course numbers match the TCCNS number, although the subject designation may diﬀer (for
example, BA versus BUSI for the Business Administration preﬁx). For more information and UT Dallas'
TCCNS matrix, see TCCNS website.
In all cases, the course description is followed by an indication of the approximate number of contact
hours per week in a semester for any lecture and/or laboratory components of the course; for example,
(2-4) indicates 2 contact hours of lecture and 4 contact hours of laboratory per week.
At the end of each course description, a frequency of course oﬀering code is available:
S = Course is oﬀered at least once each long semester
Y = Course is oﬀered at least once a year
T = Course is oﬀered at least once every two years
R = Course is oﬀered based on student interest and instructor availability
P = Course is typically oﬀered in the Spring
F = Course is typically oﬀered in the Fall
U = Course is typically oﬀered in the Summer
Credit/No Credit Classes
The credit/no credit option is intended to encourage students to take courses in topics outside of their
major area. The credit/no credit option gives students the opportunity to broaden their education with
less emphasis on grade points. A course may be designated by the instructor as unavailable to students
on a credit/no credit basis. Conversely, some courses may only be available for credit/no credit.
A student will receive credit for C (2.000 on a 4.000 point scale) work or better. No credit will be given
for work that is below C (2.000 on a 4.000 point scale). A grade of 'CR' denotes credit earned. A grade of
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 3/6

'NC' denotes no credit earned. Courses taken on a credit/no credit basis will not be used in the
calculation of a student's GPA. Students should select courses for the credit/no credit option carefully, as
this option may aﬀect eligibility for honors. (See "Graduation with Honors")
For baccalaureate degree requirements, the credit/no credit option is limited to 12 semester credit hours
or 20% of UT Dallas upper-division coursework, whichever is smaller. Courses in a student's major that
are designated as credit/no credit are not included in this limit. Complete a credit/no credit form with the
appropriate academic advisor before Census Day for the semester. A student must submit the completed
credit/no credit form to the Oﬃce of the Registrar no later than Census Day for the semester. A student
cannot repeat a letter grade course using the credit/no credit grading option.
A student may not take any course used to satisfy a Core Curriculum requirement, any course in the
major or minor that is listed as a major and related course on the student's degree plan, or major
prerequisite, on a credit/no credit basis if a letter grade is normally awarded in those courses. Students in
the Interdisciplinary Studies program may not exercise a credit/no credit option in their foundations or
concentration.
Independent Study
A student may take a maximum of 20 percent of the total semester credit hours of coursework
undertaken at UT Dallas as Independent Study.
Internship Program
The Internship Program provides students with opportunities to work in assignments related directly to
their ﬁelds of study. The experience provides students with the opportunity to apply what they learn in
the classroom to practical settings. The primary focus of internships is educational in nature. In addition,
students are able to stay in school and possibly earn money to defray college expenses, while clarifying
academic interests, and targeting speciﬁc job markets.
Internships may be taken using the credit/no credit grading option depending on the student's degree
program requirements. Internship coordinators at the Career Center can assist students with determining
internship credit options and eligibility.
The University of Texas at Dallas has a ﬂexible internship program and arrangements include the
following:
Parallel: full-time or part-time internship and full-time or part-time school.
Summer: full-time or part-time internship.
Alternating Semesters: full-time internship alternating with semesters of full-time school.
For more information about the program, contact the Career Center.
Telephone: 972-883-2943
Email: Career Center
Website: career.utdallas.edu
Repeating Coursework
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 4/6

There are certain courses in which students may repeat the course(s) for credit and may satisfy degree
requirements. In other instances, students may repeat the course to improve their grades.
Courses transferred for credit to UT Dallas from another institution of higher education may not be
repeated for additional credit.
Before repeating any course, students should contact their academic advisor to determine the
application of such course credit toward graduation. Students are also advised to check with the Oﬃce
of Financial Aid to determine how and if grades earned in repeated coursework impact their ﬁnancial aid
eligibility status.
The University of Texas at Dallas' policy for repeating coursework is stated below.
Taking Unlimited Repeatable Courses
There are certain courses that students may repeat the course(s) for credit. These courses in the
catalog will have the statement of "may be repeated for credit" and considered non-duplicated
courses. All semester credit hours and grade points earned from each of these courses count in a
student's earned hours and cumulative grade point average (GPA). Students should review their
degree program for application towards degree requirements.
Taking Limited Repeatable Courses
There are certain courses that students may repeat for credit with a limit on repeatability. For
example, courses with the course description that states, "may be repeated for credit (9 semester
credit hours maximum)." For limited repeatable courses, a student is limited to repeating the course to
the maximum hours stated in the course description including course attempts resulting in non
passing grades like withdrawals. The limited semester credit hours and grade points earned from each
of these courses count in a student's earned hours and cumulative GPA. Students should review their
degree program for application towards degree requirements.
NOTE: Registrations beyond the repeatable limit of the class will not count in a student's earned
hours, cumulative GPA, and degree requirements.
Repeating Courses to Improve Grades
Undergraduate students may repeat the course to improve their grades; however, if the course is not
designated as a repeatable course, then any single course can contribute only once to the number of
semester credit hours required for graduation.
An undergraduate student may repeat the same course to improve his/her grades based on following:
An undergraduate student may repeat a course for an improved grade only if the grade is C- or
below.
An undergraduate student is limited to three grade-bearing enrollment attempts for any speciﬁc
class. The student cannot repeat the same course for a fourth time regardless of the grade earned.
According to Texas Education Code 54.014, a resident undergraduate student attempting the same
class, excluding designated repeatable courses, for the third time will be charged tuition at the
nonresident undergraduate student rate for the same number of semester credit hours.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 5/6

Courses cross-listed under more than one course preﬁx are considered the same course for repeat
counting.
All withdrawals (academic and non-academic withdrawals) are counted as grade-bearing
enrollment attempts.
Undergraduate students who are Texas residents should be aware that state law limits the number
of semester credit hours an undergraduate Texas resident may attempt while paying tuition at the
rate provided for Texas residents. See Excessive Undergraduate Hours.
The grade from the ﬁrst attempt will not be used in computing a student's grade point average. All
further repeats will be used in computing the student's GPA. See Grade Point Average and Transfer
Credit. All grades will appear on the student's transcript. A notation beside the ﬁrst grade will indicate
that the course has been repeated. Courses that were originally taken for a letter grade may not be
repeated for credit/no credit or pass/fail in lieu of a letter grade.
Undergraduate Coursework from Other Institutions of Higher
Education
Undergraduate students who fail a course in residence at UT Dallas may repeat the course at another
institution of higher education. An undergraduate student may not transfer an equivalent course if
that course was taken at UT Dallas with a passing grade (D's included). Upon successful completion of
the repeated course with a grade of at least C (2.000 on a 4.000 scale), the course may be transferred
to UT Dallas where it will meet the content requirements of the course failed in residence and
contribute semester credit hours toward graduation. However, the grade of F earned at UT Dallas will
remain a part of the student's academic record and will be computed as a part of the cumulative GPA.
Updated: 2025-05-25 18:26:44 v3.a6d0ee
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Course Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/course-policies 6/6
