Regents’ Rules and Regulations
The Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System includes a vast
array of information. Most student-oriented content is contained within Series 50000: Student Issues.
Handbook of Operating Procedures
UT Dallas, in conjunction with the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents of The University of
Texas System, has adopted a Handbook of Operating Procedures for the orderly and efﬁcient conduct
of business. Each student is charged with notice, knowledge and compliance with the contents and
provisions of UT Dallas and UT System rules and regulations in addition to federal, state and local
laws.
Sexual Assault/Harassment Policies
It is the policy of the University to strive to maintain an environment that is free from intimidation and
inappropriate sexual conduct. The University will not tolerate any form of sexual assault or sexual
Policies
Students at UT Dallas are expected to obey and conduct themselves in accordance with both
the penal and civil statutes of the local, state and federal government and the Rules and
Regulations of the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System, UT Dallas regulations
and administrative rules, and to observe standards of conduct appropriate for an academic
institution.
Community Standards and
Conduct
Faculty / Staff Policies Students
Contact
9/29/26, 7:39 PM Policies - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/ 1/3

harassment.
Title IX: Sexual Discrimination, Harassment and Assault
UTDBP3102: Sexual Misconduct Policy
Related Pages
University Handbook of Operating Procedures
Regents’ Rules and Regulations
Conﬁdentiality
The Ofﬁce of Community Standards and Conduct adheres to state and federal laws relating to
conﬁdentiality. All discipline-related records are kept by the ofﬁce and separate from all other
educational records.
Other Resources
Please see Policy Matters for Students for regulations pertaining to equal opportunity issues, Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and discrimination.
9/29/26, 7:39 PM Policies - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/ 2/3

