Policies > Hazing
Hazing Prevention and Awareness
Programming
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to fostering a safe and respectful campus environment
through comprehensive hazing prevention and awareness initiatives. Each semester, the university
offers educational programs for students, faculty, staff and student organization advisers. These
programs are grounded in research and address key topics such as bystander intervention, ethical
leadership and effective strategies for building group cohesion through healthy and respectful
practices.
Hazing Deﬁned
The 70th Texas Legislature enacted a law concerning hazing. Under the law, individuals or
organizations engaging in hazing could be subject to ﬁnes and charged with a criminal offense.
According to the law, a person can commit a hazing offense not only by engaging in a hazing activity,
but also by soliciting, directing, encouraging, aiding or attempting to aid another in hazing; by
intentionally, knowingly or recklessly allowing hazing to occur; or by failing to report, in writing to the
Dean of Students or another appropriate ofﬁcial of the institution, ﬁrst-hand knowledge that a hazing
incident is planned or has occurred. The fact that a person consented to or acquiesced in a hazing
activity is not a defense to prosecution for hazing under this law.
Hazing
Community Standards and
Conduct
Faculty / Staff Policies Students
Contact
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Hazing - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/hazing/ 1/4

In an effort to encourage reporting of hazing incidents, the law grants immunity from civil or criminal
liability to any person who reports a speciﬁc hazing event in good faith and without malice to the
Dean of Students or other appropriate ofﬁcial of the institution and immunizes that person for
participation in any judicial proceeding resulting from liability that might otherwise be incurred or
imposed as a result of the report. The penalty for failure to report is a ﬁne of up to $1,000, up to 180
days in jail, or both. Penalties for other hazing offenses vary according to the severity of the resulting
injury which results and include ﬁnes from $500 to $10,000 and/or conﬁnement for up to two years.
The law deﬁnes hazing as:
Hazing includes but is not limited to:
1. any type of physical brutality, such as whipping, beating, striking, branding, electric shocking,
placing of a harmful substance on the body or similar activity;
2. any type of physical activity, such as sleep deprivation, exposure to the elements, conﬁnement
in a small space, calisthenics, or other activity that subjects the student to an unreasonable
risk of harm or that adversely affects the mental or physical health or safety of the student;
3. any activity involving consumption of food, liquid, alcoholic beverage, liquor, drug or other
substance which subjects the student to an unreasonable risk of harm or which adversely
affects the mental or physical health of the student;
4. any activity that intimidates or threatens the student with ostracism, that subjects the student
to extreme mental stress, shame or humiliation, or that adversely affects the mental health or
dignity of the student or discourages the student from entering or remaining registered in an
educational institution, or that may reasonably be expected to cause a student to leave the
organization or the institution rather than submit to acts described in this subsection;
5. any activity that induces, causes or requires the student to perform a duty or task which
involves a violation of the Penal Code.
University Disciplinary Rules
This law does not affect or in any way limit the right of the University to enforce its own rules against
hazing under UTDSP5003, Student Code of Conduct.
Dangerous or Degrading Activities
any intentional, knowing or reckless act, occurring on or off the campus of an educational
institution, by one person alone or acting with others, directed against a student, that
endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for the purpose of pledging,
being initiated into, afﬁliating with, holding ofﬁce in or maintaining membership in any
organization whose members are or include students at an educational institution.
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Hazing - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/hazing/ 2/4

Activities which under certain conditions constitute acts which are dangerous, harmful or degrading,
in violation of University rules include, but are not limited to:
Calisthenics, such as situps, pushups or any other form of physical exercise;
Total or partial nudity at any time;
The eating or ingestion of any unwanted substance;
The wearing or carrying of any embarrassing, degrading or physically burdensome article;
Paddle swats, including the trading of swats;
Pushing, shoving, tackling or any other physical contact;
Throwing any substance on a person;
Consumption of alcoholic beverages accompanied by either threats or peer pressure;
Lineups for the purpose of interrogating, demeaning or intimidating;
Transportation and abandonment (road trips, kidnaps, walks, rides, drops);
Conﬁning individuals in an area that is uncomfortable or dangerous (hot box effect, high
temperature, too small);
Any form of individual interrogation;
Any type of servitude that is of personal beneﬁt to the individual members;
Wearing of embarrassing or uncomfortable clothing;
Assigning pranks such as stealing, painting objects, harassing other organizations;
Intentionally messing up the house or a room for clean up;
Demeaning names;
Yelling or screaming; and
Requiring boxing matches or ﬁghts for entertainment.
Report Hazing
REPORT HAZING INCIDENT
Your identity will remain conﬁdential. You have the option to submit a report anonymously; however,
the Ofﬁce of Community Standards and Conduct may be limited in completing the investigation and
taking disciplinary action without the ability to thoroughly investigate by contacting you as the
reporting party.
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Hazing - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/hazing/ 3/4

Organizations Found Responsible for Accusations of
Hazing
In accordance with requirements of the Texas Education Code, Section 51.936(c), the following
organizations have been disciplined for hazing and/or convicted for hazing, on or off campus, during
the preceding three years.
Dean of Students: Hazing Report 2/2/26
Privacy Policy
Community Standards and Conduct
800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Hazing - Community Standards and Conduct | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://conduct.utdallas.edu/policies/hazing/ 4/4
