1 
 
University of Texas at Dallas 
Course Syllabus PA 6315 
Summer 2025 – July 7 to August 12, 2025 
Evaluating Program and Organizational performance 
 
Professor:  Dr. Abraham David Benavides 
Class Time:   Mondays & Tuesdays 6:00 - 9:45 pm 
Class Location: Dallas City Hall L1EN Room E 
Office:    Green Hall Room 3.804 
Phone:   972-883-6475 UTD Office 
Phone Cell:  (940) 367-6063 
Email:   benavides@utdallas.edu 
Office Hours:   Before and after class or by appointment 
TA:     Moise Dzogolo moise.dzogolo@utdallas.edu and 
    Chris Han chanyoung.han@utdallas.edu  
___________________________________________________ 
 
Course Description 
 
Program evaluation is essential for designing and operating effective programs in public and 
nonprofit organizations. It involves the systematic use of scientific methods to obtain and utilize 
evidence that can assist decision makers to assess and improve their programs. This course will 
introduce students to program evaluation theory and practice, including discussion about a) the 
need and logic of evaluations, why do we need it and how do we use it?, b) the design and theory 
of evaluation practices, c) its implementation and d) how to understand the outcomes and 
impacts.  
 
Upon successful completion of this course, students should: 1) Become familiar with the 
concepts, theories, and methods of evaluation research; 2) Describe the purposes and logic of 
program evaluation; 3) Raise concrete evaluation questions; 4) Apply principles of research 
design to evaluation questions; 5) Propose an appropriate evaluation plan to assess the 
implementation and effectiveness of a program; 6) Use evaluation results to propose ideas and 
strategies to improve program performance. 
 
The most agile organizations can be described as “learning organizations”—continually adapting 
to new circumstances and information. Formal evaluation plays a pivotal role in helping 
organizations learn. This course examines the practical aspects of program evaluation within 
public policy in domestic and international contexts. Emphasis is placed on the design and 
implementation of small-to medium-scale program evaluations under time and budget constraints 
using ‘best feasible’ methods. Topics include the types and purposes of evaluation, theory-based 
evaluation, evaluability and planning, measurement and construct validity, data collection, 
evaluation design, estimation of program effects, experiments, qualitative and mixed methods, 
evaluation resistance, building organizational capacity, ethics, cost-effectiveness, and reporting 
and utilization. The course will be useful to students working in a variety of mission-driven 
organizations, especially those who currently have, or expect to have in the future, program 
evaluation responsibilities.

2 
 
________________________________________________________________ 
Course Modality 
This course is offered as an in-perosn intensive summer format on Monday and Tuesday night 
with 4 hour class meetings. Various teaching methods will be used to keep students active 
including inclass lectures, team work, projects, assignments, questions and answers, instructional 
videos, guest lectures, etc.  
Learning Objectives 
• Develop an understanding of the tools for measuring performance and evaluating the 
impact of a program or policy 
• Critically evaluate the tools and strategies related to program evaluation 
• Learn to develop meaningful evaluation questions 
• Develop program logic models 
• Design, collect, and analyze data for use in evaluation work 
• Provide valuable insights and recommendations based on evaluation findings 
• Gain ability to use evaluations to improve organizational processes 
Textbooks and Other Readings and Materials 
Wholey, J. S., Hatry, H. P., & Newcomer, K. E. (2015) 4th Edition. Handbook of Practical 
Program Evaluation . John Wiley & Sons. 
Other required readings will be available digitally through the eLearning course page. 
(Note: Books are available, for free, as an e-book from the UTD library.) 
Additionally, readings will be posted on eLearning. These will consist of various academic 
articles, book chapters, professional reports, case studies, webpages, Ted Talks, and a number of 
other items. Because of the increased cost of books, my attempt is to lessen this extra expense 
while at the same time providing excellent content to provide appropriate context for the course. 
Citation Style 
For your papers, you should use APA style. Also, feel free to use the vast amount of resources on 
the Internet. Mainly, I expect students to be consistent in regards to formatting, citations, and 
references. For more information, please refer to the APA style manual. 
American Psychological Association. (2009). Publication Manual of the American 
Psychological Association, 6th Edition. 
Limitations This course introduces you to a menu of evaluation methods and helps you learn to 
select appropriate methods based on an evaluation question and available resources. The 
application of a specific method, such as multivariate analysis or survey design, in a professional

3 
 
capacity is likely to require other additional training in that specific method. To the extent 
practical, students with an interest in particular methods are encouraged to incorporate them into 
their team projects or evaluation proposals.  
 
Course Requirements and Grading:  
 
The course involves lectures, group exercises, case studies, and class discussion. A typical class 
will include a lecture, student presentations, general discussion of readings, and group work. We 
often organize into groups to review and discuss a specific case study or a contemporary public 
management situation for some portion of class time. The instructor challenges students to relate 
theories to practical situations or to recommend managerial prescriptions.  
 
There are 4 requirements for the course:  
1) Examinations 40% –There will be two exams. Exams will cover material presented in the 
assigned texts, supplemental readings and class discussions. Good answers provide purposeful, 
justifiable and logical arguments, clear definitions for key concepts, and demonstrate knowledge 
and command of the topic area. In addition, it is very important that answers specifically address 
the question(s) asked in the exam. The Take Home exams will be administered on July 21 and 
August 5.  
 
2) Evaluation Proposal 20% –The evaluation proposal is an individual assignment but should 
relate to the subject matter of your team’s project. You will select a published evaluation and 
rewrite it in the form of a 1,000 –1,500 word proposal (3 pages) based on publicly available 
information.  
 
Select and read a published evaluation. This evaluation should relate to the subject area of your 
team case project. By selecting a case in that subject area, it helps build knowledge within your 
team about how that type of evaluation is conducted. The evaluation on which you base your 
proposal can be in the form of a research report (gray literature, such as from a think tank or 
consultancy) or a peer-reviewed journal article. For best results, base your proposal on a 
document that has evaluation as its sole or primary purpose and includes a thoroughly 
documented methods section. You are encouraged to consult with the instructor to confirm you 
have chosen a suitable document on which to base your proposal. 
 
Write your evaluation proposal through a process like “reverse engineering.” That is, you will 
mentally go back in time to before this evaluation was conducted and write a proposal to carry 
out the evaluation described in the publication. Example: If they report that they conducted a 
randomized controlled trial with 50 participants, you will propose to conduct a randomized 
controlled trial with 50 participants. Your proposal should not include any information about the 
results of the evaluation.  
 
Prepare the executive summary after writing the rest of the proposal. Summarize the key points 
from the other parts of the proposal. An executive summary is not an introduction and should not 
introduce any information not found elsewhere in the proposal. The idea behind an executive

4 
 
summary is that it should be able to take the place of the document if the executive is very 
pressed for time. An executive summary is typically about 10% of the length of the document. 
Manage expectations. It might be more accurate to describe this assignment as a draft or outline 
of an evaluation proposal rather than a true proposal. You are not expected to carry out any data 
collection or analysis. Research and sources cited probably do not need to go beyond the 
published evaluation and the organization’s website. You are required to cite the evaluation on 
which you base your proposal and any other sources used. 
 
Submit your completed proposal through Blackboard 
 
3) Logic Model 15% Understanding a program’s theory and being able to represent it in a logic 
model is a conventional starting point in program evaluation. Complete a logic model for any 
program you are familiar with and respond to the questions below. Any structure for the logic 
model can be used, but it should include program processes and expected outcomes. 
 
Remember, a logic model is a visual or graphic illustration or representation that outlines how a 
program or initiative is expected to achieve its intended outcomes. It essentially maps out the 
relationships between resources, activities, and the anticipated changes or results. It's a tool used 
to clarify the “how” and “why” of a program's design and implementation, helping to identify 
what needs to be done and what success looks like. Logic models clearly and concisely show 
how interventions affect behavior and achieve a goal. Addiitonally, a logic model contains four 
components: inputs, activities, outputs, and outcomes. Inputs: What the organization invests in 
the program. (Examples: money, staff, volunteers, time, equipment, materials, technology, 
partners, etc.) Basically, a logic model is a systematic and visual way to present and share your 
understanding of the relationships among the resources you have to operate your program, the 
activities you plan to do, and the changes or results you hope to achieve. 
 
As soon as you have identified a program to evaluate, you can begin working on this assignment. 
To accompany your logic model, provide a 3 page narrative that answers the questions 
listed below.  
 
• What are the goals and objectives of the program you will evaluate? 
• Whom is the program designed to serve? Include as much demographic detail as possible 
(age, gender, ethnicity, etc.) for each group impacted by the program (e.g., students, 
parents, clients, etc.). Give your best estimate if precise demographic information is not 
available. 
• What are the means through which program goals and objectives are expected to be met 
In other words, what activities does the program utilize to serve its clientele? 
• What data/records currently exist relative to goals, objectives, and activities of this 
program? 
 
4) Program Evaluation Team Project Report & Presentation 20% – In teams of 
approximately 3, you will develop a report that poses a program evaluation decision problem and 
present your case to the class. Your case must feature real events, I would suggest doing a 
proposed program evaluation on a city agency.

5 
 
Evaluation Protocol 
In a total of 10 pages (not counting references/appendices), synthesize your logic model for the 
program you intend to study and data collection instrument into the following sections, 
addressing these questions: 
 
• Evaluation Framework: What theoretical framework/orientation has guided your 
program evaluation? How is this framework/orientation well-suited to the program you 
have evaluated? Explicitly compare it to other options. 
 
• Stakeholders: Who are your stakeholders and the readers of your evaluation report? 
What are their needs and expectations? How do you intend for them to use your 
evaluation report? What makes the evaluation framework you have chosen well-suited to 
meet their needs? 
 
• Existing Program Data: What data have you utilized in your evaluation? How have you 
gained access to that data? What form was the data in when you received them? What are 
the weaknesses of these data? 
 
• Data Collection: What, if any, additional data have you collected for your evaluation? 
How have you collected that data? Include any materials (e.g., surveys, tests, interview 
questions, observation protocols) that you have used. How did you gain permission and 
ensure cooperation for data collection? 
 
• Data Analysis: How did you analyze your data? How do the results of each analysis 
relate to specific program goals, objectives, and activities? 
 
• Recommendations: Based on your findings, what choices will the stakeholders have to 
initiate change? What are your recommendations (program should contract, expand, add, 
delete, maybe even terminate if certain conditions are found)? Where in the logic model 
is the focal point of your recommendations? For example, are more resources/inputs 
needed? Do activities need to be adjusted? Are the outcomes realistic? Were there 
sufficient data /records to conduct evaluation? 
 
Evaluation Briefing 
Each group will develop a short, professional presentation designed to convey and sell the 
proposed protocol to stakeholders. Consider how to briefly, clearly, and convincingly convey 
the 3-5 most important things stakeholders will learn from your results and the potential choices 
they may be able to make based on the empirical data. This approximately 15-minute 
presentation will be given in class. 
 
5) Class Exercises and participation 20% – Throughout the semester, various in class exercises 
will be distributed. The main purposes of these assignments are to help you summarize the 
readings, think critically, engage and participate in the class discussions. Assignments will be 
turned in online during class. Most of the students are active learners and learn best when they 
can actively engage and discuss the material. The more you participate, the more engaging and 
interesting the class will be. Your opinions and experiences matter so please share with the class.

6 
 
Students who pose questions and participate in the discussion sharpen their public presentation 
skills and learn to think in a clear and critical manner in real time. Students benefit from hearing 
the discussion and questions of other students. Multiple absences from class will affect this 
portion of the grade. 
Course Grading  
• A: 90-100% (Outstanding, excellent work. The student performs well above the 
minimum criteria). 
• B: 80-89% (Good, impressive work. The student performs above the minimum criteria). 
• C: 70-79% (Solid, college-level work. The student meets the criteria of the assignment).  
• D: 60-69% (Below average work. The student fails to meet the minimum criteria).  
• F: 59 and below (sub-par work. The student fails to complete the assignment). 
Course Assignments 
 
Activity Percentage of Final 
Grade 
Due Dates 
Logic Model 15 Percent July 15 
Midterm Examination 20 Percent July 21 
Evaluation Proposal 15 Percent July 29 
Final Examination  20 Percent August 5 
Program Evaluation Project Presentations 20 Percent August 11 and        
August 12 
Class Exercises and Participation  10 Percent Various Dates  
 
Course Expectations  
 
General expectations  
Students are expected to complete all required readings prior to class time, take some notes on 
the lectures and presentations, participate in class discussions and complete the written 
assignments and examinations. Case study materials will be either posted on eLearning in 
advance or passed out in class. The instructor is strongly committed to maintaining a positive 
learning environment based on open communication, mutual respect, and non-discrimination. 
Please respect your instructor and fellow students. Our university does not discriminate on 
the basis of race, gender, age, disability, veteran status, religion, sexual orientation, color, or 
national origin. Any suggestions as to how to further such an environment will be appreciated 
and given serious consideration.  
 
Acceptable Student Behavior:  
Student behavior that interferes with an instructor’s ability to conduct a class or other students' 
opportunity to learn is unacceptable and disruptive and will not be tolerated in any instructional

7 
 
forum at UTD. Students engaging in unacceptable behavior will be directed to leave the 
classroom and the instructor may refer the student to the Dean of Students to consider whether 
the student's conduct violated the Code of Student Conduct. The university's expectations for 
student conduct apply to all instructional forums, including university and electronic classroom, 
labs, discussion groups, field trips, etc.  
 
Policy on Cell Phone and Laptop in the Classroom  
Students are allowed to take notes on personal laptop computers to enhance the learning process, 
but they should not activate their internet browsers during class or use computers for 
nonacademic purposes (as this diverts attention from the lecture/discussion for both the student 
using it and others nearby). Please keep your cell phones on silent mode for the duration of our 
class period. 
 
Course Schedule, Detail 
The descriptions and timelines contained in this syllabus are subject to change at the 
discretion of the Professor.  
    
Monday July 7 – Evaluation Planning & Design  
 
Introduction to the Course and Historical Context for Program Evaluation  
 
Student Introductions  
 
Chapter 1. Planning and Designing Useful Evaluations 7 
 
Chapter 2 Analyzing and Engaging Stakeholders 36 
 
Tuesday July 8 – Logic Models In Evaluations  
 
Chapter 3 Using Logic Models 62 
 
Chapter 4 Exploratory Evaluation 88 
           
Monday July 14 – Performance Measurement  
 
Chapter 5 Performance Measurement 108 
 
Chapter 6 Comparison Group Designs 137 
 
Tuesday July 15 – Evaluation Practices 
 
Chapter 7 Randomized Controlled Trials 158 
 
Chapter 8 Conducting Case Studies 177

8 
 
Assignment: Logic Model Due 
 
Monday July 21 – Mid-Term Examination 
 
Mid-Term Examination 
 
The exam will be provided 1 week before it is due. 
 
Tuesday July 22 – Evaluation Methods  
 
Chapter 9 Recruitment and Retention of Study Participants 197 
 
Chapter 14 Using Surveys 344 
 
Monday July 28 – Practical Data Collection Procedures  
 
Chapter 17 Collecting Data in the Field 445 
 
Chapter 20 Focus Group Interviewing 506 
 
Tuesday July 29 – Data Analysis  
 
Chapter 22 Qualitative Data Analysis 561 
 
Chapter 25 Meta-Analyses, Systematic Reviews, and Evaluation Syntheses 673 
 
Monday August 4 – Evaluation Challenges  
 
Chapter 30 Use of Evaluation in Government 798 
 
Chapter 31 Evaluation Challenges, Issues, and Trends 816 
 
Tuesday August 5 – Final Examination   
 
Final Examination 
 
The exam will be provided 1 week before it is due. 
 
Monday August 11 – Project Presentations  
 
Student Program Evaluation Project Presentations 
 
Tuesday August 12 – Project Presentations

9 
 
 
Student Program Evaluation Project Presentations 
 
Written Evaluation Projects Due 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Resources 
 
Reporting Sexual Misconduct and Sharing Confidential InformationStudents considering sharing 
personal information in email or in person should be aware that all University staff, faculty, 
teaching assistants/associates, and graduate/research assistants are required by UT Dallas policy 
to report information about sexual misconduct to the UT Dallas Title IX Coordinator. Per 
university policy, Sexual Misconduct Policy - UTDBP3102, faculty have been informed that 
they must identify the student to the UT Dallas Title IX Coordinator. Students who wish to have 
confidential discussions of incidents related to sexual harassment or sexual misconduct should 
contact the following confidential resources, including, but not limited to: 
 
1. the Student Counseling Center (972-883-2575 or the 24/7 Crisis Hotline at 972-UTD-
TALK or 972-883-8255), 
2. a health care provider in the Student Health Center (972-883-2747), 
3. a clergyperson (or other legally recognized religious advisor) of their choice, or 
4. an off-campus resource (e.g., a rape crisis center, doctor, psychologist). 
 
Students who are sexually assaulted, harassed, or are victims of sexual misconduct, domestic 
violence, or stalking, are encouraged to directly report these incidents to the Title IX Coordinator 
by making a report online or by calling the Title IX Coordinator at 972-883-2306. Students may 
also contact the UTD Police Department (UTDPD) for emergency assistance; criminal reporting 
and investigation; information or assistance regarding protective orders or forensic sexual assault 
exams; or to request a police escort. In case of emergency, call 911. For non-emergency 
situations, students can reach the UT Dallas Police Department by calling 972-883-2222. For 
more information about available support and resources, students can visit the Office of 
Institutional Compliance (Support Services & Resources) webpage.

10 
 
Pregnancy and Parenting 
UT Dallas is committed to providing support and resources for pregnant and parenting students, 
faculty, and staff in accordance with Title IX, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, the 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Texas Education Code Section 51.982, and other 
applicable federal and state laws.  Pregnant and parenting students are encouraged to complete 
the Pregnant and Parenting Self-Identification Form located on the Office of Institutional 
Compliance’s website. Submitting this form allows for a coordinated University effort to help 
facilitate support for pregnant and parenting students, such as early registration for parenting 
students and accommodations for pregnant students. For more information about the services 
and resources available to pregnant and parenting students, visit the Pregnant & Parenting 
Resources page and the Student Pregnancy and Parenting Nondiscrimination Policy. 
Nondiscrimination 
UT Dallas prohibits all forms of discrimination (including harassment) based on race, color, 
religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, 
national origin, disability, genetic information, or veteran status. UT Dallas further prohibits all 
forms of sex-based discrimination (including sex-based harassment). Students who believe they 
have been discriminated against or harassed in violation of University policy, or who believe that 
someone else has been discriminated against or harassed, are encouraged to directly report these 
incidents to the Office of Institution Compliance by making a report online or by calling the 
Office of Institution Compliance at 972-883-2306. For more information, see the University’s 
Nondiscrimination Policy and Sexual Misconduct Policy. For additional information about 
available support and resources, see the Office of Institutional Compliance (Support Services & 
Resources) webpage. 
 
Technical Support 
If you experience any issues with your UT Dallas account, contact the UT Dallas Office of 
Information Technology Help Desk or call 972-883-2911. 
UT Dallas provides eLearning technical support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through UTD 
eLearning Helpdesk. The services include a toll-free telephone number, 1-866-588-3192, for 
immediate assistance, Educational Technology Services (eLearning) is available by email to 
request services. They also have an online chat service. 
Field Trip Policies, Off-Campus Instruction and Course Activities 
Off-campus, out-of-state, foreign instruction/travel, and course-related field trip activities are 
subject to state law and university policies and procedures regarding travel and risk-related 
activities. 
Detailed information regarding this policy, in accordance to Texas Education Code, Section 
51.950, can be accessed through the UT Dallas Policy UTDBP3023, and the Travel-Related Risk 
Risks webpage. Additional information is also available from the office of the school dean by 
telephone, 972-883-6391 or by email.

11 
 
Student Conduct and Discipline 
The University of Texas System Regents' Rule 50101 and UT Dallas have rules and regulations 
for the orderly and efficient conduct of their business. It is the responsibility of each student and 
each student organization to be knowledgeable about the rules and regulations which govern 
student conduct and activities. General information on student conduct and discipline is 
contained in the Student Complaints Resources within the online UT Dallas Undergraduate 
Catalog, and the Graduate Catalog. 
UT Dallas administers student discipline within the procedures of recognized and established due 
process. Procedures are defined and described in the (Student Code of Conduct, UTDSP5003). 
Copies of these rules and regulations are available to students in the Office of Community 
Standards and Conduct, where staff members are available to assist students in interpreting the 
rules and regulations (SSB 4.400, 972-883-6330) and online at their webpage. 
A student at the University neither loses their rights nor escapes the responsibilities of 
citizenship. He or she is expected to obey federal, state, and local laws as well as the Regents' 
Rules, university regulations, and administrative rules. Students are subject to discipline for 
violating its standards of conduct whether such conduct takes place on or off campus, or whether 
civil or criminal penalties are also imposed for such conduct. 
 
Social Media Use 
The Student Code of Conduct includes behaviors conducted via any digital platform. Students 
may not use any digital platform to seek or provide unauthorized assistance for any assignment 
done for academic credit. Students may not use any digital platform to impersonate or represent 
any person other than themselves. Please consult with your instructor regarding authorized 
assistance. 
 
Academic Integrity 
The faculty expects from its students a high-level of responsibility and academic honesty. 
Because the value of an academic degree depends upon the absolute integrity of the work done 
by the student for that degree, it is imperative that a student demonstrates a high standard of 
individual honor in his or her scholastic work. Additional information is provided within their 
website. 
Academic Dishonesty: Academic dishonesty can occur in relation to any type of work submitted 
for academic credit or as a requirement for a class. It can include individual work or a group 
project. Academic dishonesty includes plagiarism, cheating, fabrication, and 
collaboration/collusion. In order to avoid academic dishonesty, it is important for students to 
fully understand the expectations of their professors. This is best accomplished through asking 
clarifying questions if an individual does not completely understand the requirements of an 
assignment.  
Additional information related to academic dishonesty and tips on how to avoid dishonesty may 
be found on their website.

12 
 
Copyright Notice 
It is the policy of UT Dallas to adhere to the requirements of the United States Copyright Law of 
1976, as amended, (Title 17, United States Code), including ensuring that the restrictions that 
apply to the reproduction of software are adhered to and that the bounds of copying permissible 
under the fair use doctrine are not exceeded. Copying, displaying, reproducing, or distributing 
copyrighted material may infringe upon the copyright owner's rights. Unauthorized distribution 
of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject students to 
appropriate disciplinary action as well as civil and criminal penalties. Usage of such material is 
only appropriate when that usage constitutes "fair use" under the Copyright Act. The fair use 
exemption has more information. As a UT Dallas student, you are required to follow UT Dallas' 
copyright policy, UTDPP1043 and the UT System's copyright policy, UTS107. 
In accordance with Regents' Rule 90101, section 6, and federal copyright law, a student enrolled 
in a course owns the intellectual property created by the student in the course. 
Email Use 
UT Dallas recognizes the value and efficiency of communication between faculty/staff and 
students through electronic mail. At the same time, email raises some issues concerning security 
and the identity of each individual in an email exchange. All official student email 
correspondence will be sent only to a student's UT Dallas email address and UT Dallas will only 
consider email requests originating from an official UT Dallas student email account. This 
allows the University to maintain a high degree of confidence in the identity of each individual 
corresponding via email and the security of the transmitted information. UT Dallas furnishes 
each student with a free email account that is to be used in all communication with university 
personnel. The Office of Information Technology provides a method for students to have their 
UT Dallas mail forwarded to other email accounts. To activate a student UT Dallas computer 
account and forward email to another account, access NetId Self-Service Portal to set it up. 
 
Class Attendance 
The University's attendance policy requirement is that individual faculty set their course 
attendance requirements. Regular and punctual class attendance is expected regardless of course 
modality. Students who fail to attend class regularly are inviting scholastic difficulty. In some 
courses, instructors may have special attendance requirements; these should be made known to 
students during the first week of classes. 
 
Class Participation 
Regular class participation is expected regardless of course modality. Students who fail to 
participate in class regularly are inviting scholastic difficulty. A portion of the grade in the 
course is directly tied to class participation. It also includes students' engagement in group or 
other activities during class that solicit feedback on homework assignments, readings, and/or 
materials covered in the lectures and/or labs. Class participation is documented by faculty. 
Successful class participation is defined as consistently adhering to University requirements, as 
presented in the syllabus. Failure to comply with these University requirements is a violation of 
the Student Code of Conduct - UTSP5003.

13 
 
Military Affiliated Students 
At the University of Texas at Dallas, we are committed to supporting our military and veteran 
students and their spouses and dependents as they pursue their academic goals. Recognizing the 
unique challenges faced by those who have served, we strive to create a welcoming and 
supportive environment. Please contact your instructor if you are on active duty, called to serve, 
or if any aspect of your current or past military service, or your family situation, makes it 
challenging to meet the course requirements or affects your academic progress. Your instructor 
is committed to supporting you and will work with you to address any complications. 
The Military and Veteran Center (MVC) offers a range of resources and referrals to campus and 
community partners, ensuring that our military and veteran students can access the assistance 
they need. Whether it is academic advising, financial aid, or personal support, the MVC is 
dedicated to helping our students succeed and thrive in their educational journey. 
Credit/No Credit and Pass/Fail Grading Options 
Students are encouraged to review the online catalogs regarding Credit/No Credit or Pass/Fail 
courses. Students should consult their academic advisors to understand what it means for their 
academic careers before completing the form prior to Census Day. 
Undergraduate students: please review the Credit/No Credit Classes section in the Undergraduate 
Catalog. 
Graduate students: please review the Pass/Fail Grading section in the Graduate Catalog. 
Withdrawal from Class 
The administration at UT Dallas has established deadlines for withdrawal from any course. 
These dates and times are published in the Comet Calendar and in the Academic Calendar. It is 
the student's responsibility to handle withdrawal requirements from any class. In other words, a 
professor or another instructor cannot drop or withdraw any student unless there is an 
administrative drop such as the following: 
• Not meeting the prerequisites for a specific course 
• Not satisfying the academic probationary requirements, resulting in suspension 
• An Office of Community Standards and Conduct request 
• Not making appropriate tuition and fee payments 
• Enrollment is in violation of academic policy 
• Not admitted for the term in which they registered 
It is the student's responsibility to complete and submit the appropriate forms to the Registrar's 
Office and ensure that he or she will not receive a final grade of "F" in a course if he or she 
chooses not to attend the class after being enrolled. 
Undergraduate students: please review the Dropping and Withdrawing section in the catalog. 
Graduate students: please review the Schedule Changes: Dropping, Adding and Withdrawing 
from Courses section in the catalog.

14 
 
Student Grievance Procedures 
Procedures for student grievances are found in the university policy UTDSP5005. In attempting 
to resolve any student grievance regarding disputes over grades, application of degree plan, 
graduation/degree program requirements, and thesis/and dissertation committee, adviser actions 
and/or decisions, evaluations, and/or other fulfillments of academic responsibility, it is the 
obligation of the student first to make a serious effort to resolve the matter with the instructor, 
supervisor, administrator, or committee with whom the grievance originated. 
Incomplete Grade Policy 
As per university policy, incomplete grades may be given at the discretion of the instructor of 
record for a course, when a student has completed at least 70% of the required course material 
but cannot complete all requirements by the end of the semester. An incomplete course grade 
(grade of 'I') must be completed within the time period specified by the instructor, not to exceed 
eight (8) weeks from the first day of the subsequent long semester. Upon completion of the 
required work, the grade of 'I' may be converted into a letter grade (A through F). If the grade of 
Incomplete is not removed by the end of the specified period, it will automatically be changed to 
a grade of F. The incomplete grade policy is included in the online UT Dallas Undergraduate 
Catalog and the Graduate Catalog. 
 
Accommodations for Students with Disabilities 
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for all 
persons with disabilities. The syllabus is available in alternate formats upon request. If you are 
seeking classroom accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (2008), you are 
required to register with the AccessAbility Resource Center (ARC), located in the 
Administration Building, Suite 2.224. They can be reached by email, calling 972-883-2098, or at 
their website. To receive academic accommodations for this class, please register and request 
services by completing the Request for Services form with the proper documentation and 
meeting with the Director of ARC at the beginning of the semester. 
 
Religious Holy Days 
UT Dallas will excuse a student from class or other required activities, including examinations 
and travel time, for the observance of a religious holy day for a religion whose places of worship 
are exempt from property tax under Section 11.20, of the Texas Tax Code. 
Students are encouraged to notify the instructor or activity sponsor as soon as possible regarding 
the absence, preferably in advance of the assignment. 
Excused students will be allowed to take missed exams or complete assignments within a 
reasonable time after the absence: a period equal to the length of the absence, up to a maximum 
of one week. A student who notifies the instructor and completes any missed exam or 
assignment may not be penalized for the absence. A student who fails to complete the exam or 
assignment within the prescribed period may receive a failing grade for that exam or assignment.

15 
 
If a student or an instructor disagrees about the nature of the absence [i.e., for the purpose of 
observing a religious holy day] or if there is similar disagreement about whether the student has 
been given a reasonable time to complete any missed assignments or examinations, either the 
student or the instructor may request a ruling from the school's vice or associate dean, who serve 
as the President's designees for these rules. The vice or associate deans must take into account 
the legislative intent of Texas Education Code 51.911(b), and the student and instructor will 
abide by the decision of the vice or associate dean. 
This information is also included in the online UT Dallas Undergraduate Catalog, and the 
Graduate Catalog. 
 
Making a False Alarm or Report Involving a Public or Private Institution of a 
Higher Education 
Making a false threat at any Texas higher education institution is considered a State Jail Felony, 
not a Class A misdemeanor, according to a law passed by the Texas Legislature. 
This legislation was enacted in response to several threats in past years at several universities 
across the U.S. that disrupted classes and prompted evacuation of campus property, even though 
the reports turned out to be a hoax. 
This law relates to the offense of making or causing a false alarm or report involving a public or 
private institution of higher education. A person commits an offense under Section 42.06, Texas 
Penal Code, if he or she knowingly initiates, communicates or circulates a report of a present, 
past, or future bombing, fire, offense, or other emergency that he or she knows is false or 
baseless and that would ordinarily: 
1. Cause action by an official or volunteer agency organized to deal with emergencies; 
2. Place a person in fear of imminent serious bodily injury; or 
3. Prevent or interrupt the occupation of a building, room, place of assembly, place to which 
the public has access, or aircraft, automobile, or other mode of conveyance. 
An individual adjudged guilty of a state jail felony shall be punished by confinement in a state 
jail for any term of not more than two years or less than 180 days and, in addition to 
confinement, may be punished by a fine not to exceed $10,000. 
UT Dallas students should be aware that the State of Texas takes these threats seriously, and the 
legal consequences, which are severe, go beyond anything that the University's disciplinary 
committee can address. 
This information is also included in the online UT Dallas Undergraduate Catalog and in the 
Graduate Catalog. 
 
Interactive Campus Map - Locate Severe Weather Shelters, Elevators, and 
Bathrooms

16 
 
The interactive campus map allows users to search for severe weather shelter areas in each 
building. On the map, click on a building and select "Storm Shelters" from the "Find" drop-down 
menu. Remember, a severe weather shelter area is usually any interior room without windows, 
such as a restroom, hallway, conference room, or office. Try to find shelter on the lowest floor of 
the building and stay away from large auditoriums or gyms. Users can also use the same map to 
locate elevators and bathrooms. 
 
Academic Support Resources/Resources to Help You Succeed 
Please use the following Academic Support Resources permanent address when referring to this 
section. 
 
All Students 
For help with a research assignment, such as finding journal articles or using a database, try 
CHAT at McDermott Library. 
The Center for Students in Recovery helps students seeking recovery from substance and alcohol 
use, eating disorders, and other addictions and compulsive behaviors. They also help students 
affected by these issues or individuals exploring the impact of addictions or compulsive 
behaviors within their lives. Their mission is to provide a safe, supportive community to enable 
students to thrive both socially and academically while living in recovery. They are located in 
SSB 4.500, on the fourth floor of the Student Services Building. They can be contacted by 
calling 972-883-7320 or they can be reached by email.  
 
The Comet Cupboard is a UT Dallas food pantry initiative dedicated to helping students in need. 
The Comet Cupboard is located in MC 1.604, on the first floor of the McDermott Library, and 
can be contacted by calling 972-883-6613 or email.  
 
Comet Cents provides financial literacy to students with the peer-to-peer model. This money 
management center provides one-on-one appointments and workshops throughout the semester. 
Comet Cents works to help students improve their financial situation with topics such budgeting, 
credit card debit, investing and other personal finance areas.  
 
Intercultural Programs provides a host of transition programs for international students and 
intercultural competency trainings for all students. They are located in SSB 3.6, on the third floor 
of the Student Services Building. Their phone number is 972-883-4528.  
 
The Student Counseling Center offers confidential services to students either for individual 
appointments or as part of groups. Initial appointments must be made in person in the Student 
Counseling Center, which is located in SSB 4.600, on the fourth floor of the Student Services 
Building. Their main number is 972-883-2575 and the 24/7 Crisis Hotline is 972-883-8255 (972-
UTD-TALK).

17 
 
The Student Health Center (SHC) provides primary and preventative medical care to currently 
enrolled students who have paid medical fees and are attending classes. Currently enrolled 
students can obtain a wide variety of services, such as physicals, diagnosis and treatment of 
acute illnesses and injuries, general medical problems, gynecological problems, treatment of 
stabilized chronic illnesses, allergy injections, limited immunizations, x-rays, and ultrasound. 
SHC staff of licensed medical providers is committed to keeping the UT Dallas community 
healthy and believes that health and wellness information complement the academic success of 
students. SHC is located on the fourth floor of the Student Services Building, SSB 4.700 and 
they can be reached by telephone, 972-883-2747, fax, 877-769-7514, or by email.  
 
The Testing Center, run by the Education Technology Services, offers a 300-seat computer lab, 
providing UT Dallas students access to a comfortable and secure test environment for 
online/paper exams, quizzes, instructional testing, and assessments. The Testing Center is 
located in Room 11.175, the first floor of the Synergy Park North 2 (SP2) building and can be 
contacted by calling 972-883-2460 or by email. If you experience issues taking an exam in 
eLearning, please contact the UTD eLearning Helpdesk.  
The Office of Graduate Education Fellowship Services offers workshops on fellowship and grant 
writing, including a Grant Writing Certificate program. Students applying for external funding 
can schedule appointments to find funding and to develop their applications. The Fellowship 
Office is located in FA 3.104C, on the second floor of the Founders West Annex. The office's 
phone number is 972-883-4568.  
 
The Office of Graduate Education Writing Services offers workshops on writing as well as one-
on-one appointments, writing groups, and writing retreats to help graduate students improve their 
writing skills. The Writing Services Office is located in FA 3.104, on the second floor of the 
Founders West Annex. Appointments can be made via email.  
University Resources 
 