Degree Plans
A degree plan is a deﬁnition of the course of study necessary to fulﬁll the requirement for graduation. A
degree plan is "major speciﬁc" and is established through collaboration between the student and the
academic advisor for the student's major. Course changes within university sanctioned degree plans may
be made with the approval of the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education (ADU) or his or her
designee. An initial degree plan must be ﬁled as soon as possible after entering the major. Per State
legislation eﬀective fall semester 2012, all entering freshman students must ﬁle a degree plan no later than
the end of the second regular semester following the semester in which the student earned 45 or more
semester credit hours in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685. The initial degree plan
will be kept in the oﬃce of the academic advisor, ADU, or program head and will form the basis of the
student's advisement.
In the semester preceding that in which a student plans to graduate the student is required to meet with
her/his academic advisor to prepare a ﬁnal degree plan along with the student's application for graduation
(See "Graduation Requirements" for more information).
NOTE: A change of major requires preparation of a new degree plan.
Change of Major
Newly admitted students can request change of major after Census Day of their ﬁrst term of enrollment.
Students wishing to change majors must submit a request by completing the "Undergraduate Online
Change of Plan" in their Orion Student Center. The Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education will
evaluate the student's academic record to determine the potential for success in the new major and
process the request accordingly. Please note that the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education may
review the student's UT Dallas academic record in order to evaluate the request.
Students with a cumulative GPA (grade point average) below 2.000 may only change their major only
with permission from the Associate Dean of their current major and the Associate Dean of their intended
major. Both Associate Deans' approvals are required on the "Undergraduate Online Change of Plan."
All students are allowed to modify their major twice during their academic career at no charge. A
modiﬁcation is deﬁned as a change, addition, or deletion of a major to a student's academic plan. A
student's academic career begins the ﬁrst class day of the ﬁrst semester of enrollment at UT Dallas.
If a student elects to modify his/her major more than two times during an academic career, the third
modiﬁcation requires a $50.00 fee. EXCEPTION: There is no charge to move from the "exploratory and
pre-major" category.
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Degree Plans - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/degree-plans 1/3

If the change of major is approved, the student will then be responsible for meeting all program
requirements and course prerequisites of the catalog in eﬀect at the time of the change. The Core
Curriculum requirements, however, remain those of the catalog in force at the time of matriculation
unless the student speciﬁcally chooses those of a more recent catalog. In the ﬁrst semester of change to
a new major, the student must meet with an academic advisor to prepare a degree plan.
Students wishing to change to an ECS major should review the ECS Policy on Undergraduate Change of
Majors
Students wishing to change to an IS Healthcare Studies major should review the IS Policy on Healthcare
Studies Change of Majors
Students wishing to change to a JSOM major should review the JSOM Policy on Undergraduate Change
of Majors
Deadlines and Fees
The Oﬃce of the Registrar will accept the approved "Undergraduate Online Change of Plan" in their
Orion Student Center for processing up to the close of business on the ﬁrst day of classes of each
semester. Forms received after the ﬁrst day of classes will be processed eﬀective for the following
semester.
All students are allowed to modify their major twice during their academic career at no charge. A
modiﬁcation is deﬁned as a change, addition, or deletion of a major to a student's academic plan. A
student's academic career begins the ﬁrst class day of the ﬁrst semester of enrollment at UT Dallas.
If a student elects to modify his/her major more than two times during an academic career, the third
modiﬁcation requires a $50.00 fee. EXCEPTION: There is no charge to move from the "exploratory and
pre-major" categories.
Declaring a Major
Undergraduate students must declare an academic course of study or major by the time they have
earned 54 semester credit hours in order to continue enrollment. These semester credit hours include UT
Dallas credits, credit transferred from other institutions, and semester credit hours awarded through
credit by examination (AP, CLEP, IB, A/AS Levels).
Transfer students who have earned 54 semester credit hours at the time they apply for admission to UT
Dallas may be exploratory for one semester. After the initial semester these students must then declare a
major or change to pre-major to be allowed to register for a subsequent semester.
Continuing students on academic probation who pass the 54 semester credit hour benchmark without
declaring a major have a maximum of two long semesters to regain good academic standing. During this
period students will be required to change to pre-major. A student who fails to regain good standing
within two long-semesters will be suspended from the University.
Double Major and Double Degree
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Degree Plans - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/degree-plans 2/3

Students should consult their advisors and/or primary school to learn more about double majors or
double degrees. Additional information can be found at "Other Degree Requirements."
A student may earn a double major or a double degree but not both. A second baccalaureate student
may not double major, seek a double degree, or change majors without a new admission application.
Updated: 2025-05-25 18:27:32 v3.a94bﬀ
9/29/26, 7:36 PM Degree Plans - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/degree-plans 3/3
