UNOFFICIAL PROPOSAL FOR NEW COGNITIVE SCIENCE DEGREE PLAN 
Home  >> Undergraduate Programs  >> School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences  >> Cognitive Science 
Child Learning and Development (B.S.)  
Cognitive Science (B.S.)  
Neuroscience (B.S.)  
Psychology  
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology  
S c h o o l  o f  B e h a v i o r a l  a n d  B r a i n  S c i e n c e s  
Cognit ive Science ( B.S.)  
Cognitive science is the study of complex information processing in humans and machines and 
includes the multidisciplinary study of biological and artificial systems. Important components of 
cognitive science include areas of research such as: cognitive-neuroscience, brain-imaging studies 
of cognitive and perceptual processing, situated cognition, human-computer interactions, 
computational modeling, and artificial intelligence.  The field of cognitive science draws from diverse 
approaches to understanding these processes, including research from experimental cognitive 
psychology, experimental social and personality psychology, neuroscience, linguistics, computer 
science, mathematics, and engineering. The Cognitive Science program at UTD consists of three 
specialization areas: (1) Psychology/Human-Computer-Interactions, (2) Neuroscience, and  (3) 
Computational Modeling. Cognitive Science Majors then select the majority of their upper-division 
coursework from 2 of these 3 specialization areas in order to generate multidisciplinary areas of 
focus such as: “cognitive-neuroscience”, “neuropsychology”, “computational neuroscience”, 
“human-computers-interaction”, “bionics”, and “artificial intelligence”.  In addition to providing a 
sound preparation for graduate work in Cognitive Science and related areas, the Cognitive Science 
major is an ideal choice for students pursuing careers that combine interests in neuroscience, 
cognition, mathematics, and computer science. There are exciting career prospects in both industry 
and academics. For example, students whose focus area is cognitive-neuroscience will be well-
prepared for careers such as: the evaluation of bionic and prosthetic technology (e.g., cochlear 
implants and artificial limbs), pursuing career paths in neuropharmacological related fields, 
intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring, brain-imaging technology areas, and clinical 
neuropsychological settings. Students whose focus area is human-computer-interactions (also 
known as usability engineering) will be prepared for pursuing careers involving the evaluation and 
design of user-friendly software interfaces which arise, for example, in the area of website 
development. Students whose focus area is artificial intelligence and computational models of brain 
and behavior will acquire a specialized background in mathematical modeling, computer 
programming, psychology, and neuroscience which can prepare students for careers associated 
with the development and implementation of intelligent systems (e.g., web search engine design, 
speech recognition technology, robotics, computer vision, and computer games) as well as bionic 
and prosthetic technology development and evaluation (such as cochlear implant technology). 
 B a c h e l o r  o f  S c i e n c e  i n  C o g n i t i v e  S c i e n c e   
D e g r e e  R e q u i r e m e n t s  ( 1 2 0  h o u r s )   
I .  C o r e  C u r r i c u l u m  R e q u i r e m e n t s1 :  4 2  h o u r s   
A. Communication (6 hours) 
3 hours Communication (RHET 1302) 
3 hours Communication Elective (CGS 3340 or PSY 3393) 2  
B. Social and Behavioral Sciences (15 hours) 
6 hours Government (GOVT 2301 and 2302) 
6 hours American History 
3 hours Social and Behavioral Science Elective (PSY 2301) 2 
C. Humanities and Fine Arts (6 hours) 
3 hours Fine Arts (ARTS 1301) 
3 hours Humanities (HUMA 1301) 
D. Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning (6 hours) 
6 hours Calculus (MATH 2417 and 2419) 3

UNOFFICIAL PROPOSAL FOR NEW COGNITIVE SCIENCE DEGREE PLAN 
E. Science (9 hours) 
6 hours Science (NSC 3361 and CGS 2301) 2  
3 hours Science Electives (including at least one course with a substantial laboratory 
component) 
1Â Curriculum Requirements can be fulfilled by other approved courses from accredited institutions of higher 
education. The courses listed in parentheses are recommended as the most efficient way to satisfy both Core 
Curriculum and Major Requirements at UT Dallas.  
 
     II. Required Lower-Division Cognitive Science Major Preparatory Coursework (18 
hours)  
     A. Lower-Division Coursework required by all Cognitive Science Majors  
CGS 2301 Cognitive Science 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part E of Core Curriculum)  
CS 1337 Computer Science I 
MATH 2417 Calculus I 3 (also satisfies 3 hours part D of Core Curriculum) 
MATH 2419 Calculus II 3 (also satisfies 3 hours part D of Core Curriculum) 
PSY 2301 Introduction to Psychology 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part B of Core Curriculum) 
PSY 2317 Statistics for Psychology 
or  CS/SE/EE 3341 Probability and Statistics in Computer Science and Software 
Engineering 
    (prerequisites: MATH 2419, CS 2305) 
             or  STAT 4351 Probability (MATH 2451) 
      B. Additional Lower-Division Coursework required for Cognitive Science Majors 
who have 
      chosen the Computational Modeling Specialization Area  
       The following courses are only required for Cognitive Science Majors who intend to choose 
“Computational Modeling” 
     as one of their desired specialization areas. These courses are prerequisites for many of 
the upper-division courses 
     in the Cognitive Science Specialization Area.  
CS 2305 Discrete Mathematics for Computing I (prerequisite: MATH 2417) 
CS 2336  Computer Science II (prerequisite: CS1337) 
MATH 2451 Multivariable Calculus with Applications (prerequisite: MATH 2419) 
MATH 2418 Linear Algebra (prerequisite: MATH 2419) 
 
III. Required Major Upper-Division Core Courses: 12 hours  
CGS 3361 Cognitive Psychology (prerequisite: CGS 2301) 
NSC 3361 Behavioral Neuroscience 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part E of Core Curriculum) 
PSY 3392 Research Design and Analysis  
CGS 3340 Empirical Methods in Cognitive Science 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part A of Core 
Curriculum) 
     or  PSY 3393 Experimental Projects in Psychology 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part A of Core 
Curriculum) 
 
IV. Required Multidisciplinary Specialization Area Course Requirement (24 upper-
division hours) 
Each Cognitive Science Major must select at least 4 courses from 2 of the following 
specialization areas to fulfill the multidisciplinary specialization area course requirement. 
For example, a student interested in fields such as: “cognitive-neuroscience”, “brain-
imaging”, “intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring” should select the specialization 
areas “Psychology/Human-Computer-Interactions” and “Neuroscience”. A student 
interested in the field of “computational-neuroscience” should select the specialization 
areas “Neuroscience” and “Computational Modeling”. A student interested in “cognitive 
modeling” should select the specialization areas “Psychology/Human-Computer-
Interactions” and “Computational Modeling”. A student interested in the field of “human-
computer-interactions” should take at least one human-computer-interaction course 
(CGS4351 Human Computer Interactions I, CGS4353 Human Computer Interactions II, 
and/or CGS4354 Human Computer Interactions Lab) within the specialization area 
“Psychology/Human-Computer-Interactions” and choose either the “Neuroscience” or 
“Computational Modeling” specialization areas depending upon their background and 
interests. A student interested in the field of “artificial intelligence” should select the

UNOFFICIAL PROPOSAL FOR NEW COGNITIVE SCIENCE DEGREE PLAN 
specialization area of “Computational Modeling” and one of the other two specialization 
areas to complete the multidisciplinary specialization area course requirement. 
 
A.  Neuroscience Specialization Area (12 upper-division hours) 
Select 4 of the following.  
NSC 4352 Cellular Neuroscience (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4354 Integrative Neuroscience (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4356 Neurophysiology (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4366 Neuroanatomy (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4363 Neuropharmacology (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4367 Developmental Neurobiology (prerequisite: NSC 3361) 
NSC 4353 Neuroscience Laboratory Methods 2 (also satisfies 3 hours part A of 
Core Curriculum) 
 
 
B.  Psychology/Human-Computer-Interactions Specialization Area (12 
upper-division hours) 
Select 4 of the following. 
CGS 3325 Historical Perspectives: Mind and Machines Since 1600 
CGS 4359 Cognitive Neuroscience 
CGS 4362 Perception 
 
CGS 4352 Human Computer Interactions I 
CGS 4353 Human Computer Interactions II 
CGS 4354 Human Computer Interactions Lab 
CGS XXXX Human Judgment and Decision Making 
 
CGS 3331 Social Psychology 
CGS 4343 Abnormal Psychology 
CGS 4334 Lifespan Development 
CGS 3310 Child Development 
CGS 3362 Cognitive Development 
 
C.  Computational Modeling Specialization (12 upper-division hours) 
Select 4 of the following. 
CGS 3342 Cognitive and Neural Modeling Lab  
CGS 4312 Computational Models of Language Understanding 
 
CGS 4313 Neural Net Mathematics (prerequisites: (MATH 2451 and MATH 2418) 
or consent of instructor;       
                     STAT 4351 is highly recommended as a corequisite or 
prerequisite) 
CGS 4314 Intelligent Systems Analysis (prerequisite: CGS 4313 or consent of 
instructor) 
CGS 4315 Intelligent Systems Design (prerequisite: CGS 4314 or consent of 
instructor) 
 
CS 3305 Discrete Mathematics for Computing II (prerequisite: CS2305) 
CS 3345 Data Structures and Introduction to Algorithmic Analysis (prerequisites: 
CS 2336, CS 3305) 
           CS 4365 Artificial Intelligence (prerequisites: CS2336, CS 3345) 
           CS 4375 Introduction to Machine Learning (prerequisites: CS2336, CS 3345) 
           CS 4391 Introduction to Computer Vision (prerequisites: CS2336, CS 3345) 
 
2Â A required Major course that also fulfills a Core Curriculum requirements 
3 Six hours of Calculus are counted to fulfill the Mathematics Core Requirement  
 
V. Free Electives (24 hours) 
A. Upper-Division Free Elective Requirement (15 upper-division hours). Cognitive 
Science Majors are required to take 15 hours of upper-division coursework. This upper-
division coursework may include additional upper-division coursework in their chosen

UNOFFICIAL PROPOSAL FOR NEW COGNITIVE SCIENCE DEGREE PLAN 
specialization areas, additional upper-division coursework in the specialization area which 
they have not chosen, or additional upper-division coursework in other areas of interest to 
the student.  
B. Additional Free Electives Requirement (9 hours of some combination of upper-
division and lower-division coursework). In addition to the 15 hours of upper-division 
coursework, Cognitive Science Majors are required to take 9 additional hours of either 
lower-division or upper-division coursework. These additional free electives can be used to 
take courses in other areas of interest to the student or they may be used to fulfill required 
lower-division course requirements for Cognitive Science Majors who have chosen the 
Computational Modeling Specialization Area. 
 
A d d i ti o n a l  A d v a n ce d  M a jo r  R e l a t ed  C G S  E l e c ti v e s  
All School of Behavioral and Brain Science courses with a PSY (Psychology) or NSC (Neuroscience) 
prefix are approved CGS electives. In addition, advanced CGS students in good academic standing 
may request permission from the Cognitive Science Program Head to take graduate Applied 
Cognition and Neuroscience coursework (ACN prefix) to fulfill the CGS elective course requirements. 
In addition, the following advanced electives are associated with all specialization areas. Approval 
from a Cognitive Science Faculty Advisor is required in order to take these electives. 
CGS 4V90 Special Topics in Cognitive Science 
CGS 4394 Internship in Cognitive Science 
CGS 4397 Honors Thesis 
CGS 4V98 Directed Research  
CGS 4V99 Individual Study  
M i n o r i n  C o g n i ti v e  S c i en ce  
Students who are not majoring in Cognitive Science may complete the minor in Cognitive Science 
by completing 18 semester credit hours.  In particular, the Cognitive Science Minor is required to 
select 3 of the 4 Required Upper-Division Cognitive Science Major Core Courses, 1 upper-division 
Cognitive Science course with the CGS prefix, and 2 additional lower-division or upper-division 
courses which have been classified as Cognitive Science Major Preparatory Lower-Division Courses 
or which satisfy the Cognitive Science Multidisciplinary Specialization Area Requirement.  No credit 
hours may be used to satisfy both major and minor requirements; however, free elective hours or 
major preparatory classes may be used to satisfy the minor. At least one-third of the hours for a 
minor must be taken at UT Dallas.  
F a s t  T ra ck  B a cc a l a u re a t e/ Ma s te r ' s  D e g r e es  
UT Dallas undergraduate students with strong academic records who intend to pursue a master's 
degree in Applied Cognition and Neuroscience at UTD may consider an accelerated undergraduate-
graduate plan of study. When accepted into the program, students may take up to 12 hours of 
graduate courses that may be used to complete the bachelor's degree and also to satisfy 
requirements for the Master's degree. Students must maintain a 3.00 grade point average and earn 
grades of B or better in the graduate courses taken. The Fast Track makes it possible for students to 
complete upper-division undergraduate education and graduate training in three years. To qualify for 
application, students must have completed at least 72 semester credit hours toward their bachelor 
degree, including at least 18 semester credit hours in major core courses at UTD. Apply to the Fast 
Track program through the Cognitive Science Program Office. Students should consult with a 
graduate advisor regarding admissions criteria and plans of study at the beginning of their junior 
year.

UNOFFICIAL PROPOSAL FOR NEW COGNITIVE SCIENCE DEGREE PLAN 
The University of Texas at Dallas 2008-2010 Undergraduate Catalog 
Volume 32, Number 1 
Copyright © The University of Texas at Dallas 
This catalog is a general information publication only. It is not intended to nor does it contain all regulations that relate to 
students. The provisions of this catalog do not constitute a contract, express or implied, between any applicant, student or faculty 
member and The University of Texas at Dallas or The University of Texas System. The University of Texas at Dallas reserves the 
right to withdraw courses at any time, to change fees or tuition, calendar, curriculum, degree requirements, graduation 
procedures, and any other requirements affecting students. Changes will become effective whenever the proper authorities so 
determine and will apply to both prospective students and those already enrolled. 
 
UTD