UT Dallas > Ofﬁce of the Registrar > Registration Procedures > Registering for Classes
Registering for Classes
Undergraduate Students
1. Attend orientation (new students only).
2. Meet with your academic advisor to register for, add, drop, or withdraw from your course(s).
3. During registration periods, the enrollment appointment is your date and time slot you are able
to registration for the term. To locate your enrollment appointment, go to your Orion Student
Center, Manage My Class tile and select the appropriate term.
4. Register for classes after your enrollment appointment begins for the term and before the
published last day to add. Non-degree seeking undergraduate students do not receive
enrollment appointments and may register beginning with open enrollment. Online registration
is available until the published last day of late registration.–Instruction: Registering/Adding
Classes Using Schedule Planner.
5. Pay online at EZPay by the published payment deadline.
Graduate Students
1. Attend orientation (new students only).
2. Meet with your academic advisor. Limitations for non-degree seeking graduate
students: Students admitted to UT Dallas as graduate non-degree seeking students limited to
undergraduate courses can register for only undergraduate courses. To register for graduate
courses, you must submit a new application for admission, and your ﬁle must be evaluated and
approved by the graduate program prior to registration.
3. During registration periods, the enrollment appointment is your date and time slot you are able
to register for the term. To locate your enrollment appointment, go to your Orion Student
Center, Manage My Class tile and select the appropriate term.
4. Register for classes after your enrollment appointment begins for the term. Online registration
is available until the published last day of late registration.–Instruction: Registering/Adding
Classes Using Schedule Planner.
5. Pay online at EZPay by the published payment deadline.
Office of the Registrar
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Registering for Classes - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/registering-for-classes/ 1/3

International Students
In addition to the above, consult the International Student Services Ofﬁce website.
F-1 Enrollment Requirements Changing Spring 2023
Since 2020, UT Dallas F-1 students have been following the SEVP temporary guidance for enrollment
requirements due to COVID-19. The SEVP temporary guidance allowed F-1 students to apply more
online courses towards their enrollment requirements than is usually allowed, but only as long as
the school was not fully operational due to effects of the pandemic. 
As of Spring 2023, UT Dallas will have returned to pre-pandemic operations and F-1 students must
follow the standard F-1 regulations for enrollment. This means only one hybrid or online course
can count towards your full-time enrollment requirements each semester. For example, a
graduate student who is required to take 9 credit hours to be full-time enrolled would need at least 6
credit hours of face-to-face coursework. Hybrid courses are considered online courses.
Still have questions? Contact the International Students and Scholars Ofﬁce through the iComet “Ask
an Advisor” eForm or during Live Chat hours
Pregnant and Parent Students
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to creating an accessible and supportive environment
for pregnant and parenting students in compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of
1972, Texas Education Code, Section 51.982, and other applicable federal and state laws.
Parenting students are eligible for early registration for courses to the extent others have access to
early registration of those same courses. To determine if you are eligible for early registration,
complete the Pregnant and Parenting Self-Identiﬁcation Form available on the Institutional
Compliance website.
For more information about resources and support available to pregnant and parenting students, see
UTD’s Pregnant and Parenting Resources. For additional questions, contact the Title IX Coordinator
at 972-883-2306 or TitleIXCoordinator@utdallas.edu.
Electing a Class as Pass/Fail or Credit/No
Credit
Credit/No Credit and Pass/Fail grading options:
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Registering for Classes - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/registering-for-classes/ 2/3

For more information on Credit/No Credit grading, please refer to the undergraduate catalog.
For more information on Pass/Fail grading, please refer to the graduate catalog.
The Pass/Fail or Credit/No Credit Request form can be found at the Registrar’s Forms page.
The full-term census day for a term is the deadline to elect Credit/No Credit (undergraduate
courses) or Pass/Fail (graduate courses) on a course.
Registering with a Permission Number
For some classes, the department or instructor may provide a permission number. To complete your
registration, follow the instructions for students to register using a permission number.
Registering with a Class Number
For some special classes that do not show in the class schedule, the department or instructor may
provide you with a class number for registration. To complete your registration, follow
the instructions for students to register using a class number.
Searching for Classes using Class Attributes
You can search for a CV Honors, Core Curriculum, Living Learning, or any other special program
courses, using the instructions for how to search by class attribute.
Related Pages
Privacy Policy
Login to Intranet
© The University of Texas at Dallas
Office of the Registrar
800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact Us
9/29/26, 7:40 PM Registering for Classes - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/registering-for-classes/ 3/3
