Home / Student Life / UTDSP5008
01.01 - The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to providing a learning environment that is
conducive for students to develop to their fullest potential. In furtherance of this commitment and to
encourage members of the University community to work collaboratively to promote the health,
safety and welfare of our students, UT Dallas has established the Behavior Assessment and
Intervention Team.
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Section 01: Policy Statements
Section 02: Purpose
Section 03: Team Purpose and...
Section 04: Team Composition
Section 05: Operations and Procedure...
Section 06: Case Information and...
UTDSP5008
Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team
Policy Statement
Section 01: Policy Statements
Section 02: Purpose

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 1/7

02.01 - This policy establishes the Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team (BAIT) and sets forth
BAIT responsibilities and operations.
02.02 - This policy also outlines procedures for team consultation with UT Dallas faculty and staﬀ
who are concerned about the behavior of a student and its potential impact on the health, safety and
welfare of members of the University community. At the beginning of each long semester, the Vice
President for Student Aﬀairs will send a notice to faculty and staﬀ through appropriate
communication channels, stating that the team is available for consultation when they are concerned
about potentially harmful, threatening, or disruptive behavior of a student or students.
03.01 - The purpose of the Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team is to review behavioral
incidents and assist in the development of a strategy to address situations involving students whose
behavior may be disruptive or harmful to the UT Dallas community, including situations where the
disruptive or harmful behavior may be a result of a mental, emotional or psychological health issue.
Speciﬁcally, the charge for this team is to:
A. Assess situations involving a student whose behavior may be disruptive or harmful to the UT
Dallas community.
B. Consult with administration, faculty, staﬀ and other students aﬀected by the inappropriate
behaviors of a disruptive student.
C. Coordinate the University response to address the situation.
D. Monitor the cases that have come to the attention of the BAIT.
E. Make recommendations to responsible University oﬃcials on appropriate action consistent with
University policy and procedure statements and with state and federal law.
04.01 - The team reports to the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs.
Section 03: Team Purpose and Responsibilities
Section 04: Team Composition
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 2/7

04.02 - The team is chaired by the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs or designee and core
members include:
A. Dean of Students
B. Dean of Undergraduate Education
C. Director of the Student Counseling Center
D. UT Dallas Chief of Police or designee
E. Associate Dean(s) of Students
F. Director of Residential Life
04.03 - The team will consult with the UT System Oﬃce of General Counsel (OGC) or University
Attorney as needed. A representative from OGC or University Attorney will serve on the team in
situations where there are obvious legal issues and concerns.
04.04 - Referrals to BAIT
A.1 - Anyone in the campus community observing an incident of behavior threatening to others,
property damage, disruption to campus activities, or other violation(s) of the law, should contact
the UT Dallas Police Department (UTDPD) immediately. The UTD Police will assess the situation to
determine if police action is warranted.
A.2 - Anyone in the campus community observing an incident of a violation of an institutional rule
should contact the Dean of Students immediately.
B - Anyone in the campus community who observes concerning or disruptive behavior but is
unsure of where to refer the matter or how to address it, should refer the matter to the BAIT chair
or any BAIT member directly.
05.01 - Upon receiving notice of a case that a team member deems time-sensitive, the team member
may call a special team meeting of the BAIT.
05.02 - All meetings of the BAIT will be chaired by the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs or designee.
Section 05: Operations and Procedure Guidelines for
Case Management
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 3/7

05.03 - The BAIT, team at its discretion, may meet with aﬀected members of the University
community to discuss the situation, including: administrators, faculty, staﬀ and other students who
may have been witness to or impacted by speciﬁc behaviors of the student; the student who is the
subject of the referral; the parent or guardian or other family member, if appropriate; or mental health
or other medical professionals as may be permitted by law.
05.04 - Members of the team will recommend to the aﬀected members of the University community,
to the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs, and to UT Dallas administration, a coordinated strategy for
addressing the situation taking into account the Student Standards of Conduct and/or appropriate
document(s).. Speciﬁc issues for consideration include identifying the speciﬁc behavior of concern;
identifying the context of the behavior; assessing potential violence and or danger to the university
community including the nature, duration and severity of any risk; reviewing evidence of health
issues, including mental health issues, as the potential cause of the behavior; assessing whether
reasonable accommodations will mitigate risk; and identifying appropriate resources to assist in
addressing the situation.
05.05 - BAIT recommendations will be made through the chair of the BAIT or his/her designee
through appropriate administrative channels.
05.06 - When a violation of the Student Code of Conduct is identiﬁed, the Dean of Students will
pursue the matter in accordance with Policy UTDSP5003, Student Discipline and Conduct.
05.07 - Following a case management evaluation and subsequent recommendation, the team will
meet to debrief and evaluate the outcome of the situation.
06.01 - BAIT records are conﬁdential and will not be released except in accordance with applicable
legal and professional standards of conﬁdentiality, including the Texas Public Information Act and the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). FERPA does allow the release of student
education records in accordance with health and safety emergencies when release is necessary to
protect the health and safety of the student or other individuals.
Section 06: Case Information and Confidentially Procedures
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 4/7

06.02 - If the student who is the subject of the BAIT review is already a client of the Student
Counseling Center or the Women's Center and/or is a patient of the Student Health Center,
information about that student's contacts may not be obtained by the team from those agencies
without written authorization of the student in question, in accordance with federal and state law.
Federal and state laws that govern the privacy and conﬁdentiality of students' health and mental
health information and records include:
A. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (Federal)
B. Psychologists Licensing Act (Texas)
C. Texas Health and Safety Code, Title 7, Ch. 611 Mental Health Records
D. Texas Health and Safety Code, Title 2, Ch. 181 Medical Records Privacy
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 5/7

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 6/7

© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5008 Behavior Assessment and Intervention Team | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5008 7/7
