Home / General Adminis / UTDPP1124
The Committee on Student Media (COSM) is a Standing Committee of The University of Texas at
Dallas appointed by the President.
The University of Texas at Dallas recognizes the value and importance of encouraging opportunities
for students and members of the University community to engage in the free and open exchange of
ideas and information as fundamental to fulﬁlling its educational and service mission. The University
sponsors student media outlets including the University's student newspaper, The Mercury; the
University's student radio station, Radio UTD; the University's student opinion and satire publication,
AMP; and the University's student TV station, UTD TV. These outlets provide an opportunity for
students to exercise Constitutionally protected freedom of the press and speech while
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Background
Purpose
Committee Charge
Membership
Responsible University Oﬃcial (RUO)
UTDPP1124
Committee on Student Media
Policy Statement
Background

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 1/6

simultaneously providing students an opportunity to develop skills and professional experience in
communication and related ﬁelds.
The Committee is responsible for providing guidance to and oversight of all student media outlets
funded by student fees.
Students who work in these University-sponsored student media organizations determine the
content of their respective media outlets and are responsible for that content. Student media staﬀ
and advisors are not censors. No staﬀ or faculty member who advises student media should be ﬁred,
transferred, or removed from their position because of their refusal to exercise editorial control over
student media or to otherwise suppress the protected free expression of student journalists.
The Committee on Student Media exists to adopt rules for and to provide oversight of the general
operations of sponsored student media outlets at the University. The committee shall be governed by
the Regents' Rules and Regulations of The University of Texas System, this and other related
University policies and procedures, and the laws of the State of Texas.
The COSM is charged with the following duties and responsibilities:
1. The COSM will draft, revise, and/or adopt, as needed, bylaws for all student media outlets
consistent with this policy and Constitutionally protected First Amendment rights. The committee
will publish any such bylaws on an appropriate, publicly available platform.
2. As part of the bylaws for each student media outlet, the COSM will deﬁne a process for resolving
disputes between student media leaders appointed by COSM and administrative staﬀ tasked with
advising and overseeing student media. If these mechanisms fail to resolve a dispute, the COSM
will make a recommendation to the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs and the President on how
best to resolve the dispute.
3. The COSM will meet at least two times each fall and spring semester, once in the summer, and
additionally as necessary to execute the committee's charge.
Purpose
Committee Charge
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 2/6

4. The COSM shall determine a process to select editors-in-chief and station managers for student
media outlets with the goal of selecting candidates no later than April 30 of each year. If an editor-
in-chief or station manager for any student media outlet is unable to complete their term, the
committee shall convene to select a new editor-in-chief or station manager to serve the remainder
of the term.
5. The COSM may consider complaints and grievances against any student media outlet staﬀ,
including editors-in-chief and station managers, and may enact appropriate sanctions, up to and
including removal.
6. The COSM shall consider recommendations from its voting, ex-oﬃcio, and non-voting members.
The Committee on Student Media will consist of voting and ex-oﬃcio, non-voting members
appointed by the President of the University, or the President's designee, as follows:
Voting members
Two (2) faculty members nominated by the Committee on University Service, one of whom will be
appointed Chair of the committee;
Two (2) staﬀ members nominated by Staﬀ Council;
Three (3) undergraduate students nominated by Student Government, one of whom will serve as
Vice-Chair of the Committee; and
Two (2) graduate students nominated by the Graduate Student Assembly.
Ex-oﬃcio, non-voting members
Senior Director for Student Aﬀairs Marketing & Student Media;
Director of Student Media;
Assistant Director of Student Media;
Editor-in-chief of The Mercury;
Editor-in-chief of A Modest Proposal (AMP);
Station manager of UTD TV; and
Membership
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 3/6

Station manager of Radio UTD.
In addition, the committee may invite journalism, media, or other communications professionals with
relevant backgrounds to serve as non-voting members of the committee. These individuals would be
chosen with the aim of providing the committee and student media leadership with advice and
guidance on student media policies and operations.
The Oﬃce of Student Media will provide administrative support to the committee for planning
meetings and other committee logistics.
Voting members shall serve one-year terms. Faculty and staﬀ voting member terms are from
September 1 to August 31. Student voting member terms are from June 1 to May 31. Terms for ex-
oﬃcio members shall coincide with their appointment terms. Other non-voting members will serve
terms deﬁned by the committee. If a voting member vacancy on the committee occurs, the President
shall appoint a new voting member nominated by the appropriate governance body to ﬁll the
unexpired term. Voting members may serve consecutive terms if nominated by their respective
governing bodies and reappointed by the President or the President's designee.
Robert's Rules of Order, when not in conﬂict with the provisions of the committee charge, shall be the
rules of parliamentary procedure when the COSM is in session. For the purposes of COSM meetings,
a quorum shall consist of ﬁfty percent (50%) plus one of the total voting membership.
Regular meetings of the COSM shall be held at such times and places as the Chair shall designate.
Special meetings of the COSM shall be held upon the call of the Chair, the Vice-Chair, or upon the
written request of not less than ﬁve voting members of the committee. Written notiﬁcation of the
time, place, and purpose of a special meeting will be provided by the Chair or their designee to each
member of the committee, including those serving in a regular external advisory role, at least three
days before the time of the meeting.
The Vice President of Student Aﬀairs shall serve as the Responsible University Oﬃcial for
this committee.
Responsible University Official (RUO)
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 4/6

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 5/6

© The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1124 Committee on Student Media | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1124 6/6
