Home / General Adminis / UTDSP5001
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Section A: Governing Principles
Section B: Prohibited Expression
Section C: General Rules on...
Section D: Distribution of Literature
Section E: Signs and Banners
Section F: Tables
Section G: General Exhibits and...
Section H: Ampliﬁed Sound
Section I: Assemblies
Section J: Guest Speakers
Section K: Responding to Speech,...
Section L: Enforcement and Appeals
UTDSP5001
Speech Expression and Assembly
Policy Statement
Section A: Governing Principles
Subsection 1: Freedom of Speech, Expression, and Assembly 

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 1/31

1. The freedoms of speech, expression, and assembly are fundamental rights of all persons and are
central to the mission of the University. Students, faculty, and staﬀ have the right to peaceably
assemble, to speak, and to attempt to attract the attention of others, and corresponding rights to
hear the speech of others when they choose to listen and to ignore the speech of others when they
choose not to listen.
2. In furtherance of the University’s educational mission, the University buildings, including their
outside surfaces, surfaces associated with or connected to a University building, or a University
structure are limited public forums open only to the expressive activities of faculty, staﬀ, and
students as set forth in this policy. Occupation of a building as an expressive activity is prohibited.
3. Members of the public may only engage in expressive activities in areas of campus that have been
designated as traditional public forums by the Board of Regents. There are currently no areas that
have been designated by the Board of Regents. If any areas become designated, a map describing
those areas will be posted publicly on the University’s website. Any person engaging in expressive
activities in such areas remains subject to the rules set forth in this policy.
4. Students, faculty, and staﬀ are free to express their views, individually or in organized groups, orally
or in writing or by other symbols, on any topic, in all parts of the campus, subject only to rules
necessary to preserve the equal rights of others and the other functions of the University.
Teaching, research, and other oﬃcial functions of the University shall have priority in allocating the
use of space on campus.
5. Except as expressly authorized by Section B or as identiﬁed in federal or state law, the University
shall not discriminate on the basis of the political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic
viewpoint expressed by any person, in the enforcement and administration of these rules
or otherwise.
6. The University of Texas at Dallas Police Department (UTDPD) may immediately enforce these rules
if a violation of these rules constitutes a breach of the peace or compromises public safety.
1. This policy applies to speech by all persons in all areas of campus, and speech made using the
University’s information systems.
2. This policy applies to speech by University persons and University organizations in the common
outdoor areas, the limited public forums, and speech made using the University’s information
systems. This policy also applies to members of the public in common outdoor areas.
Subsection 2: Scope of this Policy and Related Provisions
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 2/31

3. Any program or event sponsored by an academic or administrative unit of the University will have
priority in the use of space and facilities over any speech, expression, and assembly that is not
sponsored by an academic or administrative unit. Reservation process and available space for
academic or administrative units are diﬀerent and separate from those outlined in this policy. This
policy does not limit other existing authority of University oﬃcials to authorize programs and
events sponsored by an academic or administrative unit not provided for in this policy.
4. Additional rules concerning free speech and academic freedom of faculty members are found in
the Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 31004, Number 2, Sections 1 and 2).
5. Underlying rules concerning free speech of students are found in the Regents’ Rules and
Regulations (Rule 40501, Rule 80103, and Rule 80104). This policy implements those provisions
and applies them to UT Dallas.
6. Rules requiring University employees to make clear that controversial statements they make are in
their personal capacity are found in the Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 10101, Section 7.2).
Rules restricting use of University equipment, supplies, services, and working hours for political
activities are found in the Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 30103).
7. Students enrolled at or employees of the institution must present proof of identity and status at
the institution on request by an institution oﬃcial on the institution’s campus engaging in an
oﬃcial duty.
1. "Academic or administrative unit" means any oﬃce or department of the University.
2. "Adviser" means a member of the university faculty or full-time staﬀ who advises the members of
an organization.
3. "Ampliﬁed sound" means sound with volume that is increased by any electric, electronic,
mechanical, or motor-powered means. Shouting, group chanting, and acoustic musical instruments
are not ampliﬁed sound and are not subject to the special rules on ampliﬁed sound, but are subject
to general rules on disruption.
4. “Antisemitism” means a certain perception of Jews that may be expressed as hatred toward Jews.
The term includes rhetorical and physical acts of antisemitism directed toward Jewish or non-
Jewish individuals or their property or toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.
5. “Common outdoor area” means outdoor space that is not used solely for University business or an
event, an educational function, or a research function on either a permanent or temporary basis.
Subsection 3: Deﬁnitions
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 3/31

6. "Day" means an 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and excludes weekends, University
holidays, and days on which regularly scheduled classes are suspended due to emergency closure;
“University holiday” means days identiﬁed in the holiday schedule published by the Oﬃce of
Human Resources. If a deadline deﬁned in this policy falls on a Saturday, Sunday, University
holiday, or emergency closure, that deadline will be moved to the next business day.
7. "Dean of Students" means the Dean of Students or any delegate or representative of the Dean
of Students.
8. “Expressive Activity” means any speech or expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment
to the United States Constitution or by Section 8, Article I, Texas Constitution, and includes
assemblies, protests, speeches, the distribution of written material, the carrying of signs, and the
circulation of petitions. The term does not include: commercial speech; defamation; unlawful
harassment; incitement to imminent unlawful activity; obscenity; or threats to engage in unlawful
activity. The term does not include programming or activities conducted by university units
or departments.
9. "Faculty member and staﬀ member" includes any person who is employed by the University.
10. “Limited public forum” means University property, both indoors and outdoors, that is not
considered a traditional public forum. This includes the outside surfaces of a University building,
surfaces associated with or connected to a University building, a University structure, spaces
dedicated to temporary outdoor banners, spaces dedicated to temporary outdoor exhibits,
residential outdoor spaces managed by University Housing (including the grounds around
University Village), the Student Union Dining Hall Patio, the Student Union east awning, Dining
Hall West outdoor area, Davison Gundy Alumni Center green space, and the courtyards of all
academic buildings.
11. "Oﬀ-Campus person or organization" and “member of the public” means any person, organization,
or business that is not an academic or administrative unit; not a registered student, faculty, or staﬀ
organization; or not a student, faculty member or staﬀ member.
12. "Registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization" includes a registered student organization (as
deﬁned in the UT Dallas Student Organization Manual, Chapter 2), a faculty or staﬀ organization
under the Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 40201), and Student Government and any unit or
subdivision thereof.
13. "Room or space" includes any room or space, indoors or outdoors, owned or controlled by
the University.
14. "Student" means a person who is enrolled at the University.
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 4/31

15. "Temporary banner space" means designated outdoor or indoor display area reserved for use by
University persons and University organizations, as managed by the Dean of Students, where a
University person or organization's temporary banner may be aﬃxed for multiple days as permitted
by Subsection 21. These areas are part of the University's limited public forum and not open to use
by members of the public.
16. “Temporary exhibit space” means designated outdoor or indoor display areas reserved for use by
University persons and University organizations, as managed by the Dean of Students, where
a University person or organization may erect a temporary exhibit as permitted by Section G.
These areas are part of the University’s limited public forum and not open to use by members of
the public.
17. "University" means The University of Texas at Dallas.
18. "University facility" means an auditorium, arena, residence hall, other building, room, public area, or
any other area on the campus.
19. "University person or organization" includes academic and administrative units; registered student,
faculty, and staﬀ organizations; and individual students, faculty members, and staﬀ members. All
persons and organizations of any kind are either an "oﬀ-campus person or organization" or a
"University person or organization."
20. "University President" means the President of The University of Texas at Dallas, their delegate, or
their representative.
21. "Vice President for Student Aﬀairs" means the Vice President for Student Aﬀairs, their delegate, or
their representative.
No person or organization shall distribute or display on the campus any writing or visual image, or
engage in any public performance, that is obscene. A writing, image, or performance is "obscene"
if it is obscene as deﬁned in Texas Penal Code, Subsection 43.21 or successor provisions, and
is within the constitutional deﬁnition of obscenity as set forth in decisions of the United States
Supreme Court.
Section B: Prohibited Expression
Subsection 4: Obscenity
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 5/31

1. No person shall make, distribute, or display on the campus any statement that unlawfully defames
any other person.
2. A statement defames another person if it is: (i) published to a third party other than the subject of
the statement or their legal representative; (ii) of and concerning that person; (iii) is a false
statement of fact; (iv) that holds the person up to hatred, ridicule or contempt; (v) is made
negligently, if the person is a private ﬁgure or, if the person is a public oﬃcial or public ﬁgure, with
knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of the truth; (vi) which proximately causes damages; and
(vii) is not privileged.
No person shall make, distribute, or display on the campus any statements directed to inciting or
producing imminent violations of law under circumstances such that the statements are likely to
actually and imminently incite or produce violations of law.
1. No person will engage in conduct that constitutes harassment of another person or make,
distribute, or display on the campus or through University information resources any statement
that constitutes harassment of any other person. This Section applies to all speech regardless of
where it occurs, including oﬀ University property, if it potentially aﬀects a University person’s
education or employment with the University or potentially aﬀects the University community,
all speech made using University resources, including speech that is part of teaching, research,
or other oﬃcial functions of the University whether in person or not, and whether oral, written,
or symbolic.
2. "Harassment" means hostile or threatening conduct or speech, whether oral, written, or
symbolic, that:
1. is not necessary to the expression of any idea described in Subsection 7.3 of this policy;
2. is suﬃciently severe, pervasive, and objectively oﬀensive to create an objectively hostile or
threatening environment that interferes with or diminishes the victim’s ability to participate in or
beneﬁt from the services, activities, or privileges provided by the University; and
3. personally describes or is personally directed to one or more speciﬁc individuals.
Subsection 5: Defamation
Subsection 6: Incitement to Imminent Violations of Law
Subsection 7: Harassment
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 6/31

3. To make an argument for or against the substance of any political, religious, philosophical,
ideological, or academic idea is not harassment, even if some listeners are oﬀended by the
argument or idea. The categories of sexually harassing speech set forth in UTDBP3102 of the UT
Dallas Handbook of Operating Procedures are rarely, if ever, necessary to argue for or against the
substance of any political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic idea.
4. Verbal harassment may consist of threats, insults, epithets, ridicule, personal attacks, or the
categories of harassing sexual speech set forth in UTDBP3102 and UTDBP3090 of the UT Dallas
Handbook of Operating Procedures. Verbal harassment is often based on the victim’s appearance,
personal characteristics, or group membership, including but not limited to race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity
or gender expression, ideology, political views, or political aﬃliation.
5. Harassment can also consist of nonverbal conduct, such as hazing, practical jokes, damage to
property, and physical assault. In the case of sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, sexual
conduct is often central to the oﬀense. These forms of harassment are prohibited by UTDSP5003
and UTDBP3102 of the UT Dallas Handbook of Operating Procedures, and by the Regents’ Rules
and Regulations, Rule 30105. To the extent of any conﬂict in the deﬁnition of verbal harassment,
the more detailed deﬁnition in this section controls.
6. The harassment that this section prohibits does not exhaust the category of speech that is
unnecessary and inappropriate to vigorous debate in a diverse community of educated people. An
essential part of higher education is to learn to separate substantive argument from personal
oﬀense and to express even the deepest disagreements within standards of civility that reﬂect
mutual respect, understanding, and sensitivity among the diverse population within the University
and in the larger society. These are community norms, even though they cannot be enforced by
disciplinary rules.
7. Verbal harassment has been interpreted very narrowly by the federal courts. Policies on verbal
harassment or hate speech at many universities have been held unconstitutional, either because
they prohibited harassment only when it was based on race, sex, and similar categories, or because
they failed to protect the expression of potentially oﬀensive ideas. This policy should be
interpreted as narrowly as need be to preserve its constitutionality.
8. Members of the University community are strongly encouraged to report harassment.
1. A student who believes he or she has been harassed should report the alleged violation to the
Dean of Students.
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 7/31

2. A faculty member or staﬀ member who believes he or she has been harassed should report the
alleged violation to Human Resources.
3. Alternatively, any person who believes he or she has been harassed may report the alleged
violation to the Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance, or to any University oﬃcial, administrator, or
supervisor. A faculty member is not an “oﬃcial, administrator, or supervisor” for this purpose
unless that faculty member holds an administrative position.
4. Any University oﬃcial, administrator, or supervisor who receives a report of alleged harassment
will promptly refer that report and the complaint to the Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance,
Human Resources, or the Dean of Students as appropriate. A complainant whose report is not
forwarded to the Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance, Human Resources or to the Dean of
Students, has not initiated proceedings for providing a remedy to the complainant or for
imposing discipline on the alleged harasser.
5. Investigation of the information provided, and any remedial or disciplinary proceedings, will
advance under the procedures set out in the harassment policies cross-referenced in this section.
1. General rules.
1. No University person, University organization, or member of the public shall make, distribute, or
display on the campus any statement that oﬀers or advertises any product or service for sale or
lease, or requests any gift or contribution, except as authorized in this Subsection, by the
Regents’ Rules and Regulations, or by a contract.
2. Words or symbols on personal apparel, or on decals or bumper stickers aﬃxed to a vehicle by an
owner of that vehicle, are not solicitation within this deﬁnition.
3. Unadorned acknowledgments or thanks to donors are not solicitations within this deﬁnition.
2. Rules Speciﬁc to UT Dallas campus constituents:
1. A registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization may advertise or sell merchandise,
publications, food, or nonalcoholic beverages, or request contributions, for the beneﬁt of the
organization, for the beneﬁt of another registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization, or for
the beneﬁt of an organization that is tax-exempt under Subsection 501 (c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code. No organization may sell items obtained on consignment. No organization may
request contributions for an oﬀ-campus tax-exempt organization for more than fourteen days in
any ﬁscal year.
Subsection 8: Solicitation & Commercial Speech
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 8/31

2. Registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations, and academic and administrative units, may
sell, distribute, or display literature that contains advertising, subject to the limits in Section D.
Individual students, faculty members, and staﬀ members may distribute or display such literature,
but may not sell it.
3. Individual students, faculty members, and staﬀ members may post advertisements for
roommates, subleases, and sales of used goods that the seller has personally owned and used,
but only on a bulletin board designated for that purpose by an academic or administrative unit in
space that the unit occupies or controls. Any unit that designates a bulletin board for this
purpose may regulate that bulletin board under the procedures set forth by that unit.
4. A resident of a University residence hall or apartment building may occasionally invite one or
more salespersons to come to the resident's room or apartment, and in that room or apartment,
the salesperson may oﬀer products or services for sale to other residents of that residence hall or
apartment building.
5. As per Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 80103, 2.2.9), registered student, faculty, or staﬀ
organizations may collect admission fees for programs scheduled in advance.
6. A registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization may sell charitable raﬄe tickets on behalf of
an organization that is authorized to conduct a charitable raﬄe under the Texas Charitable Raﬄe
Enabling Act, Texas Occupations Code (Policy 2002), or successor provisions.
3. A registered student organization that receives funds from membership fees or solicitations under
this Subsection shall deposit and account for such funds under the rules in the Student
Organization Manual.
4. More detailed regulation of solicitation appears in Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule 80103).
The provisions most relevant to students, faculty, and staﬀ have been incorporated in this policy.
The following prohibitions are intended to protect the health and safety of all persons on campus, to
maintain the free ﬂow of pedestrian traﬃc in and out of University buildings, to protect the
educational mission of the University, or are otherwise required by law:
1. A mask, facial covering, or disguise that conceals the identity of the wearer that is calculated to
obstruct the enforcement of these rules or the law by avoiding identiﬁcation, to intimidate others,
Subsection 9: Prohibited Items or Actions
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 9/31

or interfere, hinder or interrupt a University oﬃcial, UTDPD oﬃcer, or other person in the lawful
performance of their duty.
2. The possession, use, or display of ﬁrearms, facsimile ﬁrearms, ammunition, explosives, or other
items that could be used as weapons, including but not limited to sticks, poles, clubs, swords,
shields, or rigid signs that can be used as a shield, without permission from the Dean of Students,
unless authorized by federal, State or local laws.
3. Body-armor or makeshift body-armor, helmets and other garments, such as sporting protective
gear, that alone or in combination could be reasonably construed as worn for participation in
potentially violent activities.
4. Open ﬂame, unless approved in advance by UT Dallas Life Safety Manager or Dean of Students.
5. Engaging in expressive activity within a ten-foot clearance around points of entry and the
perimeter of all University buildings.
6. During the last two weeks of a semester or term, engaging in expressive activities: (i) in the
common outdoor areas of the institution’s campus in a manner that materially and substantially
disrupts the functioning of the institution; (ii) by inviting speakers to speak on campus; (iii) by using
a device to amplify sound; or (iv) by using horns, drums, or other percussive instruments.
7. Camping or erecting tents or other living accommodations on campus.
8. Lowering the institution’s ﬂag of the United States or State of Texas with the intent to raise the ﬂag
of another nation or ﬂag representing an organization or group of people.
9. Engaging in expressive activities on campus between the hours of 10 p.m. and 8 a.m.
1. Except as expressly authorized in Subsection 36 or by an authorized University oﬃcial responsible
for a program or event sponsored by an academic or administrative unit, no speech, expression, or
assembly may be conducted in a way that disrupts or interferes with any:
1. teaching, research, administration, or other authorized activities on the campus;
2. free and unimpeded ﬂow of pedestrian and vehicular traﬃc on the campus; or
3. signs, tables, exhibits, assemblies, distribution of literature, guest speakers, or use of ampliﬁed
sound by another person or organization acting under the rules in this policy.
Section C: General Rules on Means of Expression
Subsection 10: Disruption
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 10/31

2. Scope.
1. The term "disruption" and its variants, as used in this subsection, are distinct from and broader
than the phrase "disruptive activities," as used in the Regents’ Rules and Regulations (Rule
40502). This rule is concerned not only with deliberate disruption but also with scheduling and
coordination of events to manage or minimize the inevitable conﬂicts between legitimate events
conducted in close proximity and to preserve the University’s ability to execute its functions.
2. Except in the most extreme cases, interference and disruption are unavoidably contextual.
Intentional physical interference with other persons is nearly always disruptive in any context.
Interfering with traﬃc depends on the relation between the volume of traﬃc and the size of the
passageway left open. Disruptive noise is the most contextual of all because it depends on the
activity disrupted. Any distracting sound may disrupt a memorial service. Any sound suﬃciently
loud or persistent to make concentration diﬃcult may disrupt a class or library. Occasional
heckling in the speaker's pauses may not disrupt a political speech, but persistent heckling that
prevents listeners from hearing the speaker does disrupt a political speech. These illustrations
may be helpful, but none of them includes enough context to be taken as a rule. We cannot
escape relying on the judgment and fairness of University authorities in particular cases. In this
context where diﬃcult enforcement judgments are unavoidable, it is especially important to
remind administrators and law enforcement oﬃcials that their judgments should not be
inﬂuenced by the viewpoint of those claiming disruption or of those allegedly disrupting.
3. Potentially disruptive events can often proceed without disruption if participants, administrators,
and law enforcement oﬃcials cooperate to avoid disruption without stopping the event. In cases of
marginal or unintentional disruption, administrators and law enforcement oﬃcials should clearly
state what they consider disruptive and seek voluntary compliance before stopping the event or
resorting to disciplinary charges or arrest.
1. No speech, expression, or assembly may be conducted in a way that damages or defaces property
of the University or of any person who has not authorized the speaker to damage or deface
their property.
2. No person may damage, deface, or interfere with any sign, table or exhibit posted or displayed by
another person or organization acting under the rules in this policy.
3. For purposes of this subsection, the unauthorized use of markers, paints, oil-based products, tape,
or chalk on buildings and surfaces is considered damage to or defacing of property.
Subsection 11: Damage to or Defacing of Property
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 11/31

1. No person may attempt to coerce, intimidate, or badger any other person into viewing, listening to,
or accepting a copy of any communication.
2. No person may persist in requesting or demanding the attention of any other person after
that other person has attempted to walk away or has clearly refused to attend to the
speaker's communication.
1. Other generally applicable or narrowly localized rules, written and unwritten, incidentally limit the
time, place, and manner of speech, but are too numerous to compile or cross-reference here. For
example, libraries typically have highly restrictive rules concerning noise; laboratories and rooms
containing the electrical and mechanical infrastructure of the University typically have safety rules
and rules excluding persons without speciﬁc business there; ﬁre and safety codes prohibit the
obstruction of exits and limit the constriction of hallways. Speech within classrooms is generally
conﬁned to the subject matter of the class; the right to attend a class at all is subject to registration
and payment of tuition; individual professors may have rules of decorum in their classroom. These
kinds of rules limit the right of students, faculty, and staﬀ to enter and speak in the places to which
these rules apply.
2. Reasonable and nondiscriminatory rules of this kind generally control over the rights of free speech
guaranteed in this policy. But even these kinds of rules are subject to the constitutional right of
free speech. Such rules must be viewpoint neutral. Such rules cannot regulate speech more
restrictively than they regulate other activities that cause the problems to be avoided by the rule.
Such rules should not restrict speech more than is reasonably necessary to serve their purpose.
Such rules cannot ban unobtrusive forms of communication with no potential for disruption even in
the specialized environment subject to the localized rule. Thus, for example, means of silent
expression or protest conﬁned to the speaker's immediate person, such as armbands, buttons, and
t-shirts, are nearly always protected because they are rarely disruptive in any environment.
3. University persons and University organizations, and members of the public are responsible for
maintaining a passageway for pedestrians that is adequate to the volume of pedestrian traﬃc
passing through the area. Should the size of the assembly exceed the maximum number of
participants that is safe for a given location, participants will be directed by campus authorities to
relocate to a space that is better suited to the size of the assembly.
Subsection 12: Coercing Attention
Subsection 13: Other Rules with Incidental Eﬀects on Speech
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 12/31

1. Registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations, and academic and administrative units, may
sell, distribute, or display literature on campus subject to the rules in this policy. Individual
students, faculty members, and staﬀ members may distribute or display literature but may not sell
it. In either case, no advance permission is required. Members of the public may distribute
literature in the areas designated by the Board of Regents as traditional public forums, subject to
the rules in this policy, but may not sell literature.
1. Except as expressly authorized by the Regents’ Rules and Regulations or by contract with the
University, no person or organization may sell, distribute, or display on campus any publication
operated for proﬁt. A registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization may sell publications
operated for proﬁt as part of a fundraiser authorized by, and subject to the limits of Subsection 8.
2. A publication is operated for proﬁt if any part of the net earnings of the publication, or if its
distribution, inures to the beneﬁt of any private shareholder or individual.
1. Literature distributed on campus may contain the following advertising:
1. advertising for a registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization, or an academic or
administrative unit;
2. advertising for an organization that is tax-exempt under Subsection 501 (c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
3. paid advertising in a publication primarily devoted to promoting the views of a not-for-proﬁt
organization or to other bona ﬁde editorial content distinct from the paid advertising; and
4. other advertising expressly authorized by the Regents’ Rules and Regulations by contract with
the University.
2. All other advertising in literature distributed on campus is prohibited.
Section D: Distribution of Literature
Subsection 14: General Rule on Distribution of Literature
Subsection 15: Not-for-proﬁt Literature Only
Subsection 16: Limits on Advertising
Subsection 17: Cleanup of Abandoned Literature
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 13/31

Any person or organization distributing literature on campus shall pick up all copies dropped on the
ground in the area where the literature was distributed.
1. "Sign" means any method of displaying a visual message to others, except that transferring
possession of a copy of the message is distribution of literature and not a sign.
2. Subject to the rules in this section and to the general rules in Sections B and C, a University person
or organization may display a sign by holding or carrying it, by displaying it at a table (see Section
F), or by posting it on a bulletin board or other designated location. Signs may not be staked to the
ground or posted in any other location except those areas allowed by long-standing tradition or
otherwise permitted by this policy.
1. Students, faculty, and staﬀ may display a sign on campus by holding or carrying it by hand or
otherwise attaching it to their person. Members of the public may display a sign in the areas
designated by the Board of Regents as traditional public forums by holding or carrying it by hand or
otherwise attaching it to their person. No advance permission is required. Signs on sticks or poles
or otherwise attached to any device are prohibited.
2. Hand-held signs constructed of materials that create a hazard to other people are not permitted.
Signs constructed of rigid materials, including sticks, poles, wood, metal, hard plastic, or other
materials that could be construed as a hazard are not permitted.
3. Any person holding or carrying a sign shall exercise due care to avoid bumping, hitting, or injuring
any other person.
4. Any person holding or carrying a sign at a speech, performance, or other event shall exercise due
care to avoid blocking the view of any other person observing the speech, performance, or event.
Depending on the venue, this may mean that signs may be displayed only around the perimeter of
a room or an audience.
5. A law enforcement oﬃcer, the Dean of Students, or an usher or any other university employee if
authorized by oﬃcials responsible for managing the venue, may warn any person that their sign is
Section E: Signs and Banners
Subsection 18: General Rules on Signs
Subsection 19: Hand-held Signs
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 14/31

being handled in violation of this section. If the violation persists after a clear warning, the law
enforcement oﬃcer, dean, authorized usher, or other authorized employee may conﬁscate the sign
or take other appropriate steps to respond to the violation. A law enforcement oﬃcer may take any
action necessary to keep the peace including but not limited to issuing a criminal trespass warning
to the violator.
1. Each academic or administrative unit may authorize the posting of signs in spaces that a unit
occupies and controls. Such authorization may be granted by general rule, by stamping or initialing
individual signs.
2. Signs in spaces occupied by academic or administrative units may be:
1. conﬁned to bulletin boards or other designated locations;
2. subjected to viewpoint-neutral rules limiting the size of signs, limiting how long they may be
posted, requiring each sign to show the date it was posted and the name of the person or
organization who posted it, and similar rules designed to facilitate fair and equal opportunities to
post signs;
3. conﬁned to oﬃcial statements or business of the unit, or to certain subject matters of interest
within the unit, or to signs posted by persons or organizations aﬃliated with the unit.
3. Each academic or administrative unit will post on or near each bulletin board or other designated
location that it administers:
1. either the rules applicable to that bulletin board or location or a particular oﬃce or website
where the rules applicable to that bulletin board or location may be found; and
2. if a stamp or initials are required on signs before they are posted on that bulletin board or
location, the name and oﬃce location of the person whose stamp or initials are required.
3. This notice will be posted in the upper left corner of each bulletin board or other designated
location for posting signs, or conspicuously in another nearby location. If no such notice is
posted, then the only applicable rules are those contained in Section B and Subsections 10, 11,
and 14.
4. Within the scope of the subject matters permitted on a particular bulletin board or other
designated location, no academic or administrative unit will discriminate on the basis of the
political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic viewpoint expressed on a sign.
Subsection 20: Signs in Other Designated Locations (including on
bulletin boards)
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 15/31

5. This Section does not apply to any enclosed bulletin board or display case that is accessible only to
authorized personnel for oﬃcial University business.
"Banner" means an aﬃxed, stationary sign hung from a structure or building, or between two
buildings, structures, or poles. Banners on poles may not be carried by individuals.
1. Hand-held banners. University persons and University organizations, and members of the public in
areas designated by the Board of Regents as traditional public forums, are permitted to display a
hand-held banner carried by two or more individuals without poles in the common outdoor areas.
2. Temporary banner space designations.
1. The Dean of Students shall designate places where banners may be hung in indoor and outdoor
locations not occupied or controlled by any other academic or administrative unit. Temporary
banner spaces are not open to the public.
2. Other academic and administrative units may designate one or more temporary banner spaces
where banners may be hung in indoor or outdoor locations that the unit occupies or controls.
These temporary banner spaces are not open to members of the public.
3. Academic and administrative units and registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations may
hang banners in locations designated under Subsection 21, 2(2). Individuals and members of the
public may not hang banners.
4. Advance permission is required for the hanging of banners. Each banner may be hung for one
week. The banner may be renewed from week to week if space is available, but usually, other
organizations are waiting their turn and renewal is not possible.
5. The Dean of Students may require that the physical work of hanging the banners be performed
only by employees of Facilities Management or other appropriate University personnel. Actual
costs will be charged to the organization or unit making the request.
Subsection 21: Banners
Section F: Tables
Subsection 22: General Rule on Tables
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 16/31

University persons and University organizations may set up tables from which to display literature,
disseminate information and opinions, and raise funds, subject to the rules in this policy. No advance
permission is required.
1. Subject to the restrictions in this section and subject to the rules on disruption of other functions
and interference with vehicular and pedestrian traﬃc, University persons and University
organizations may set up tables in any outdoor location on the campus and in any large, open,
indoor location.
2. Additional Restrictions.
1. Tables may not be set up inside any library, classroom, laboratory, performance hall, stadium, or
oﬃce, or in any hallway less than ten feet wide, without permission from the academic or
administrative unit that controls the space, or from the faculty member or staﬀ member who
controls the space at a particular time.
2. An academic or administrative unit may further specify these rules by restricting tables to
reasonable locations in spaces occupied by that unit. Academic and administrative units are
encouraged to clearly state any such rules in writing and to publish those rules on a website or
on a ﬂyer or pamphlet available at the chief administrative oﬃce of the unit.
3. If any table is set up in a prohibited or disruptive location, any University employee pointing out the
violation shall also point out other locations, as nearby as is reasonably possible, where the table
is permitted.
Each table must have a sign or literature that identiﬁes the University person or University
organization sponsoring the table.
Any person or organization sponsoring a table shall remove litter from the area around the table
before vacating the space.
Subsection 23: Locations
Subsection 24: Identiﬁcation
Subsection 25: Clean-up Around Tables
Subsection 26: Sources of Tables
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 17/31

University persons and University organizations may supply their own tables. In addition, the Dean of
Students maintains a supply of tables for registered student organizations that may be reserved and
checked out for use in the Student Union Building and on-campus in designated areas.
1. "General Exhibit" means an object or collection of related objects, designed to stand on the ground
or on a raised surface, that is not a table, and that is designed for temporary display not
permanently attached to the ground.
2. “A-Frame Exhibit” means a movable and self-supported signboard designed to stand on the ground
in a temporary outdoor exhibit space. A-frame exhibits may not exceed ﬁve feet in height or width.
Structures that do not meet these criteria will be considered general exhibits and will be subject to
the rules in Subsection 31.1.
3. Academic or administrative units and registered student organizations, faculty organizations or
staﬀ organizations may erect exhibits, subject to the rules in this section and to the general rules in
Sections B and C. Advance permission is required from the Dean of Students, except that an
academic unit may authorize indoor exhibits in a space that it occupies and controls. Members of
the public may not erect exhibits.
4. The Dean of Students will maintain on a website, a current description of the rules and procedures
for displaying a temporary outdoor exhibit space for A-frame exhibits on campus.
An academic or administrative unit or a registered student, sponsored student, faculty, or staﬀ
organization desiring to display an outdoor general exhibit will apply on a form prescribed by the
Dean of Students. An academic or administrative unit or a registered student, sponsored student,
faculty, or staﬀ organization desiring to display an outdoor A-frame exhibit must follow guidelines
outlined on the Dean of Students ‘General Exhibits and A-frame Exhibits’ website.
1. General exhibits.
Section G: General Exhibits and A-frame Exhibits
Subsection 27: General Rules on Exhibits
Subsection 28: Application Process
Subsection 29: Criteria for Approval
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 18/31

1. The Dean of Students will designate temporary outdoor exhibit spaces where general exhibits
may be placed. The Dean of Students will authorize a general exhibit described in a completed
application under Subsection 29 unless the Dean of Students ﬁnds that use of the proposed
temporary outdoor exhibit space for the proposed exhibit must be disapproved under the criteria
in UTDSP5002. The Dean of Students will advise the applicant on how to correct, if possible, any
conditions that preclude approval of the application.
2. The Dean of Students will consider the totality of the circumstances, including safety concerns,
as part of the approval process.
2. A-frame exhibits.
1. The Dean of Students will designate temporary outdoor exhibit spaces where A-frame exhibits
may be placed. If an academic or administrative unit or a registered student, faculty, or staﬀ
organization wishes to place an A-frame exhibit in a diﬀerent location, then the structure will be
considered a general exhibit under this Subsection. The Dean of Students may limit the number
of A-frame exhibits that are placed in designated areas to minimize visual obstructions of the
A-frames.
1. General exhibits.
1. In locations administered by the Dean of Students, each exhibit may be displayed for seven days.
The exhibit may be renewed for an additional seven days if space is available.
2. The exhibit may be displayed no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and must be removed by 10:00 p.m. each
day and may be re-erected each morning. However, the Dean of Students may authorize
overnight exhibits in designated locations on a case-by-case basis.
2. A-frame exhibits.
1. Each A-frame exhibit may be placed for seven days and remain overnight. The A-frame exhibit
may be renewed for an additional seven days if space is available.
2. If the A-frame is left on campus for longer than the reservation, the A-frame may be removed by
the Department of Facilities Management, at the expense of the academic or administrative unit
or registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization.
Subsection 30: Time Limits
Subsection 31: Clean-up Around and Upkeep of Exhibits
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 19/31

Any person or organization sponsoring an exhibit shall remove litter from the area around the exhibit
before vacating the space. A-frame exhibits are expected to be maintained in a manner that they are
in working order and with material that is not out of date.
Any person or organization sponsoring an exhibit assumes full responsibility for the exhibit, including
all injuries or hazards that may arise from the exhibit. The University shall not be liable for any
damage that may occur to the exhibit, and any person or organization sponsoring the exhibit shall
indemnify the University for any claims arising from the exhibit's presence on campus.
Registered organizations may use ampliﬁed sound on campus at designated times and locations,
subject to the rules in this section and to the general rules in Sections B and C. Members of the
public may not use ampliﬁed sound. This section creates limited exceptions to the general rule on
disruption in Section C.
It is prohibited by law to use a device to amplify sound while engaging in expressive activities on
campus during class hours that: (i) intimidates others; (ii) interferes with campus operations; or (iii)
interferes with an institution or employee’s or a peace oﬃcer’s lawful performance of a duty.
1. Student Union Mall
1. The Margaret McDermott Student Union Mall Ampliﬁed Sound Area is bounded by the Student
Union Building on the west side and extends to the stone wall between the Student Union and
the McDermott Library on the east side. The north boundary is marked by the north end of the
mall pavers and the south boundary is the end of the pavement on the south side of the outdoor
Chess Plaza.
2. With appropriate approval, University persons and University organizations, and members of the
public may use ampliﬁed sound in this area from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday,
and 8:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
Subsection 32: Liability
Section H: Amplified Sound
Subsection 33: General Rules on Ampliﬁed Sound
Subsection 34: Location and Times of Ampliﬁed Sound Areas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 20/31

3. All academic and administrative units, as well as, registered and sponsored student organizations,
and faculty and staﬀ organizations may use sound equipment owned or controlled by the dean of
students’ oﬃce for this sound area. This sound area requires a reduced decibel level as compared
to other sound areas to ensure educational activity in close proximity is not disturbed.
2. Student Union Green Space
1. The Student Union Green Space is bounded by the edges of the grass on the north, south, east,
and west sides.
2. With appropriate approval, University persons and University organizations, and members of the
public may use ampliﬁed sound in this area from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday,
and 8:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
3. academic and administrative units, as well as, registered and sponsored student organizations,
and faculty and staﬀ organizations may use sound equipment owned or controlled by the dean of
students’ oﬃce for this sound area. This sound area requires a reduced decibel level as compared
to other sound areas to ensure educational activity in close proximity is not disturbed.
3. With advance permission from the director of the Student Union, University persons and University
organizations may be authorized to use ampliﬁed sound in the ampliﬁed sound areas after 5:00
p.m. weekdays and Saturdays and Sundays, not to exceed 10:00 p.m. the next day. The Student
Union Director will decide what a reasonable start/end time should be, based on information
relating to other campus events and classroom activities occurring on the day of the request.
University groups using Student Union ampliﬁed sound equipment will yield equipment when the
facility closes.
4. The Vice President for Student Aﬀairs may designate additional areas for use of ampliﬁed sound.
5. If the director of the Student Union concludes that it is unworkable to use ampliﬁed sound in more
than one of the ampliﬁed sound areas at the same time, the director may deny requests to use
ampliﬁed sound.
1. The director of the Student Union may prescribe rules concerning scheduling, sound levels, the
location of speakers and direction in which they are pointed, and other rules to facilitate the use of
ampliﬁed sound areas, to mediate any conﬂict with University functions and other nearby activities,
and to manage environmental impact. All such rules shall be reasonable and nondiscriminatory.
2. Reservations.
Subsection 35: Regulation and Scheduling of Ampliﬁed Sound
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 21/31

1. University persons and University organizations wishing to use an ampliﬁed sound area may
reserve a particular area at a particular time. Reservations by University persons and University
organizations must be made with the director of the Student Union through the online request
form located on the Student Union website. If space is available, the director of the Student
Union shall approve a properly completed request, unless the application must be disapproved
under the criteria in UTDSP5002 or under rules promulgated by the director under the authority
of this section.
2. The director of the Student Union shall advise each applicant on how to correct, if possible, any
conditions that preclude approval of its application. The director of the Student Union may give
advice to applicants of approved applications about other possible locations for an event, or
about modiﬁcations to the proposed event, that would avoid potential problems or make the
proposed event more workable.
3. The director of the Student Union may limit the number or frequency of reservations for each
applicant to ensure reasonable access for all University persons and University organizations
desiring to use ampliﬁed sound.
3. When ampliﬁed sound areas are not reserved for use for an assembly including ampliﬁed sound,
they are available for use, for permitted expressive activity, without reservation as part of the
common outdoor areas. Any University person or University organization using or occupying the
space without a reservation must yield control of the space in time to permit any user with a
reservation to begin using the space promptly at the beginning of its reserved time. Equipment
will not be provided to University persons and University organizations who do not have a
prior reservation.
4. University persons and University organizations using ampliﬁed sound are responsible for
maintaining a passageway for pedestrians that is adequate to the volume of pedestrian traﬃc
passing through the area.
5. Any designations of additional areas, any additional rules regulating the designated areas, and the
rules and procedures for reserving the right to use a designated area, shall be clearly stated on a
website maintained by the director of the Student Union.
Registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organizations may use ampliﬁed sound indoors. Ampliﬁed sound
suﬃcient to be heard throughout the room may be used in any room in any building, but the director
of the Student Union or other university oﬃcial may limit or prohibit sound that would be disruptive
Subsection 36: Ampliﬁed Sound Indoors
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 22/31

outside the room. Reservations may be required. Rules concerning use of University buildings are
contained in UTDSP5002.
1. University persons and university organizations may assemble on campus in any place where, at
the time of the assembly, the University person or University organization is permitted to be. This
right to assemble is subject to the rules in this policy, and to the rules on use of University property
in UTDSP5002. No advance permission is required in the common outdoor areas.
2. Members of the public may not participate in assemblies on campus with the exception of the
areas that have been designated by the Board of Regents as traditional public forums.
1. Common outdoor areas reservations.
1. University persons and University organizations, and members of the public may reserve a space
to assemble in the common outdoor areas, as deﬁned by this policy. This is in addition to the
ampliﬁed sound areas which are also available for reservation.
2. Reservations by University persons and University organizations must be made with the
director of the Student Union through the online request form on the Student Union website.
Applications and requests for a reservation for such assemblies will be approved pursuant
to UTDSP5002.
3. If the expected attendance at an assembly is twenty-ﬁve or more people, advance notice of no
less than three days is recommended. University persons and University organizations are
encouraged to seek reservation of a space that is suited to their assembly’s anticipated size.
2. Limited public forum areas reservations.
1. Registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organizations and academic or administrative units may
reserve a space to assemble in the limited public forum areas, as deﬁned by this policy.
2. The director of the Student Union or other campus units, depending on the space, will receive
applications for reservations of a space within the limited public forum areas. Applications for a
reservation for such assemblies will be processed under the provisions in UTDSP5002.
Section I: Assemblies
Subsection 37: General Rules on Assemblies
Subsection 38: Reservation of Space
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 23/31

3. If the expected attendance at an event with a guest speaker is twenty-ﬁve or more people,
advance notice of no less than three days is required.
3. An organization with a reservation has the right to the reserved room or space for the time covered
by the reservation. Certain rooms may be available for use by reservation only. If permitted to use a
room without a reservation, any person or organization using or occupying the room or space
without a reservation must yield control of the room or space in time to permit any organization
with a reservation to begin using the room or space promptly at the beginning of its reserved time.
4. While reservations are not required, for all rooms, they are strongly encouraged. A person or
organization planning to use a room or space without a reservation may ﬁnd the facility locked or in
use by another person or organization.
5. Should the size of any assembly exceed the maximum number of participants that is safe for a
given location, including a reserved space, assembly participants will be directed by campus
authorities to relocate to a space that is better suited to the size of the assembly to the extent
relocation is practicable.
1. University persons or University organizations that are planning an assembly in a common outdoor
area, with or without a guest speaker, and with more than ﬁfty expected participants, including
potential counter-demonstrators, are strongly encouraged to provide advanced notice of no less
than one week to the director of the Student Union to help the University improve the safety and
success of the expressive activity. If there is uncertainty about applicable University rules, the
appropriateness of the planned location, or possible conﬂict with other events, persons and
organizations are encouraged to consult the Dean of Students and director of the Student Union.
Should the size of the assembly exceed the maximum number of participants that is safe for a given
location, participants will be directed by campus authorities to relocate to a space that is better
suited to the size of the assembly to the extent relocation is practicable.
2. Persons or organizations that are planning a public assembly in a common outdoor area, with or
without a guest speaker, and with more than ﬁfty expected participants, including potential
counter-demonstrators, are strongly encouraged to provide advanced notice of no less than one
week to the director of the Student Union to help the University improve the safety and success of
the expressive activity. Members of the public may provide this notice by emailing
reservations@utdallas.edu. If there is uncertainty about applicable University rules, the
appropriateness of the planned location, or possible conﬂict with other events, persons and
Subsection 39: Notice and Consultation
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 24/31

organizations are encouraged to consult the Dean of Students and director of the Student Union.
Should the size of the assembly exceed the maximum number of participants that is safe for a given
location, participants will be directed by campus authorities to relocate to a space that is better
suited to the size of the assembly to the extent relocation is practicable.
3. University organizations planning an event in the limited public forum areas with or without a guest
speaker and expected attendance of more than twenty-ﬁve participants are required to provide
advanced notice of no less than three days to the Dean of Students, per the regulations outlined in
the Student Organization Manual, to improve the safety and success of the expressive activity.
University persons and University organizations are encouraged to consult with the Dean of
Students and director of the Student Union if there is uncertainty about applicable University rules,
the appropriateness of the planned location, or possible conﬂict with other events. The dean has
much experience in helping student organizations structure events in ways that both comply with
the University's rules and achieve the organization's goals for the event. The dean can help identify
appropriate space and potentially conﬂicting events. The dean can help the planners avoid
unintended disruption or other violations that may result in subsequent discipline or subsequent
interference with the assembly by campus authorities.
4. The notice and consultation requirements of this section do not apply to academic or
administrative units.
5. Registered student organizations notice and consultation requirements of this section may be
waived by the Dean of Students.
6. Registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations are aﬀorded privileges not available to
individual faculty, staﬀ, and students. Individuals may not reserve indoor space on campus.
"Guest speaker" means a speaker or performer who is not a student, faculty member, or
staﬀ member.
1. Subject to the rules in this policy, University persons and University organizations, and members of
the public may present guest speakers in common outdoor areas.
Section J: Guest Speakers
Subsection 40: Deﬁnitions
Subsection 41: Who May Present
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 25/31

2. Registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations and academic and administrative units may
present guest speakers in the limited public forums of the campus. In the case of registered student
organizations and sponsored student organizations, advance permission from the Dean of
Students, as outlined in the Student Organization Handbook is required. Registered faculty
organizations are required to seek advance permission from the Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs
and Provost. Registered staﬀ organizations are required to seek advance permission from the Vice
President and Chief of Staﬀ. Individuals may not present a guest speaker in University buildings or
University facilities.
1. Subject to the rules in this policy, including the applicable time, place, and manner rules, University
persons and University organizations, and members of the public may utilize the common outdoor
areas for guest speaker assemblies. No reservation or prior approval is necessary, but notice and
reservations are encouraged.
2. A guest speaker may present a speech or performance, or lead a discussion, at a time announced in
advance, in a limited public forum following guidelines and reservation requirements set forth in
this policy.
1. A guest speaker may distribute literature indoors only immediately before, during, or after the
normal course of their speech, performance, or discussion to persons in attendance. Only
literature that complies with Section D of this policy may be distributed.
3. A guest speaker may not:
1. accost potential listeners who have not chosen to attend the speech, performance, or
discussion; or
2. distribute literature to persons who have not chosen to attend the speech, performance, or
discussion; or
3. help staﬀ a table or exhibit unless it is set up in a common outdoor area.
1. A registered student organization that has received approval of the dean to host a guest speaker
in a limited public forum area must complete the reservation of space form on the Student
Union website.
Subsection 42: Location and Form of Presentation
Subsection 43 Application
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 26/31

2. The dean shall approve an application properly made under Section I of this policy unless it must be
disapproved under the criteria in UTDSP5002.
A student, faculty or staﬀ organization that presents a guest speaker must make clear that:
1. the organization, and not the University, invited the speaker; and
2. the views expressed by the speaker are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of the
University, the University of Texas System, or any component institution.
Persons and organizations may respond to the speech, expression, or assembly of others, subject to
all the rules in this policy.
1. Responders may not damage or deface signs or exhibits, disrupt assemblies, block the view of
participants, or prevent speakers from being heard.
2. Means of response that are permitted in many locations and without advance permission or
reservation, such as signs, distribution of literature, and assembly without ampliﬁed sound, may be
used immediately and in any location authorized in this policy.
3. Means of response that require advance permission or reservation, such as banners, general
exhibits, A-frame exhibits, and ampliﬁed sound, may be used as soon as the needed permission or
reservation may be arranged. Banner space and some ampliﬁed sound areas may be unavailable on
short notice because of earlier reservations, but the Dean of Students shall expedite approval of
general exhibits, A-frame exhibits, available banner space, and ampliﬁed sound areas where
necessary to permit appropriate response to other speech, assembly, or expression.
4. Means of response that are conﬁned to authorized locations, such as banners, exhibits, and
ampliﬁed sound, may be used only in those locations. It is not possible to respond to ampliﬁed
sound with ampliﬁed sound in the same location; similarly, if an exhibit or assembly is in a location
Subsection 44: Obligations of Presenting Organization
Section K: Responding to Speech, Expression, and Assembly
Subsection 46: General Rule on Responding
Subsection 47: Applications
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 27/31

where ampliﬁed sound is not permitted, it is not possible to respond with ampliﬁed sound in that
location. In either case, it is possible to respond with ampliﬁed sound in another location and to use
signs or distribution of literature to advertise the response at the other location.
1. It is the responsibility of the University to make its best eﬀort to protect the safety of all persons
on campus and to provide police protection for speakers, assemblies, persons staﬃng or viewing
exhibits, and other events. The normal patrolling of oﬃcers in regular duty areas that fall in the area
of such events will be at the cost of the University. When the magnitude, timing, or nature of an
event in a University building, University facility, or other areas of the University’s limited public
forum requires overtime hours from police oﬃcers (including contract hours for oﬃcers hired from
other departments or private security agencies), the University will, to the extent speciﬁed in
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, charge the cost of overtime or contract oﬃcers to the person or
organization sponsoring the event or exhibit. The purpose is to charge for police overtime when
reasonably necessary, but not to charge for police overtime made necessary by the content of
speech at the event or by the controversy associated with any event.
2. A reasonable and nondiscriminatory fee for overtime police work will be charged to the registered
student, faculty, or staﬀ organization for events in a University building, University facility, or
other areas of the University’s limited public forum for events that require overtime police
protection, and
1. charge a price for admission, or
2. have a paid speaker, band, or other oﬀ-campus person or organization for services at the event.
3. The University shall have the sole power to decide, after reasonable consultation with the person
or organization planning the event, whether and to what extent overtime police protection is
required. No additional fee shall be charged for oﬃcers assigned because of political, religious,
philosophical, ideological, or academic controversy anticipated or actually experienced at the event.
All fees shall be based on the number of oﬃcers required for an uncontroversial event of the same
size and kind, in the same place and at the same time of day, handling the same amount of cash.
4. Nothing in this Subsection applies to any interdepartmental charge or transfer among units or
accounts funded by the University.
Section L: Enforcement and Appeals
Subsection 48: Police Protection
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 28/31

1. Students wishing to make a grievance regarding a violation of Texas Education Code § 51.9315 may
report it via the University Compliance and Ethics hotline by calling 1-888-228-7707.
2. A student or registered/sponsored student organization who violates a prohibition in this policy
may be disciplined under the procedures in UTDSP5003.
3. A faculty member who violates a prohibition in this policy may be disciplined under applicable
procedures provided by other rules. If no such procedures exist, violations by faculty members shall
be referred to the Oﬃce of the Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost.
4. A staﬀ member who violates a prohibition in this policy may be disciplined under applicable
procedures provided by other rules. If no such procedures exist, violations by staﬀ members shall
be referred to the staﬀ member's supervisor.
5. Authorized University personnel may prevent imminently threatened violations, or end ongoing
violations, of a prohibition in this policy, by explanation and by persuasion, by reasonable physical
intervention, by arrest of violators, or by any other lawful measures. Alternatively, or additionally,
they may initiate disciplinary proceedings under paragraphs 2, 3, or 4 of this subsection. Discretion
regarding the means and necessity of enforcement shall be vested in the Chief of Police, or in
University personnel designated by the President, as appropriate, but such discretion shall be
exercised without regard to the viewpoint of any speaker.
6. A University person or University organization on the campus shall comply with instructions from
University administrators and law enforcement oﬃcials at the scene. A University person or
University organization that complies with an on-the-scene order limiting speech, expression, or
assembly may test the propriety of that order in an appeal under Subsection 50.
7. Oﬀ-campus person(s) or organization(s) on the campus who violate a prohibition in this policy may
be subject to criminal trespass charges, arrest, or other lawful measures.
8. Any incitement of violence, incitement of imminent violation of law, harassment, property damage,
disruption of a university activity, or any other violation of state or federal law or university policy
that was committed because of antisemitism or the oﬀender’s bias or prejudice against a group
identiﬁed by race, color, disability, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, gender, or sexual
preference will be subject to discipline, up to and including possible termination/expulsion.
9. Any registered student group that engages in incitement of violence, incitement of imminent
violation of law, harassment, property damage, disruption of a university activity, or any other
violation of state or federal law or university policy because of antisemitism or bias or prejudice
Subsection 49: Response to Violations
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 29/31

against a group identiﬁed by race, color, disability, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, gender,
or sexual preference, is subject to discipline, up to and including possible loss of recognized status
for the registered student group.
1. A University person or University organization that is denied permission for an activity requiring
advance permission under this policy may appeal the denial of permission.
2. A University person or University organization that complies with an on-the-scene order limiting
speech, expression, or assembly may, on or before the ﬁfth weekday after complying with the
order, ﬁle an appeal to determine the propriety of the order limiting the speech, expression, or
assembly. The question on appeal shall be whether, under the circumstances as they reasonably
appeared at the time of the order, the appellant's speech, expression, or assembly should have
been permitted to continue. Such an appeal may be useful to clarify the meaning of a rule, or to
resolve a factual dispute that may recur if the appellant desires to resume the speech, expression,
or assembly that was limited by the order.
3. An appeal authorized by this Subsection shall be heard under the procedures set out
in UTDSP5002.
Subsection 50: Appeals
Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 30/31

Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5001 Speech Expression and Assembly | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5001 31/31
