Home / Student Life / UTDSP5002
The property, buildings or facilities owned or controlled by the U. T. System or U. T. Dallas are not
open for assembly, speech, or other activities as are the public streets, sidewalks and parks. The
responsibility of the Board of Regents to operate and maintain an eﬀective and eﬃcient system of
institutions of higher education requires that the time, place, and manner of assembly, speech, and
other activities on the grounds and in the buildings and facilities of the U. T. System or U. T. Dallas be
regulated. Acting pursuant to the general authority of Texas Education Code Chapter 65 and the
speciﬁc authority of Texas Education Code UTDSP5005, the Board of Regents adopts and promulgates
rules and regulations relating to the use of buildings, grounds and facilities for purposes other than
programs and activities related to the role and mission of the U. T. System or U. T. Dallas. Those rules
and regulations are summarized in this chapter to inform students and student organizations of their
rights and responsibilities for use of university facilities.
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Subchapter A: General Provisions
Subchapter B: Reservation of a...
UTDSP5002
Use of University Facilities
Policy Statement
Subchapter A: General Provisions
Section 48.01: Purpose and Application

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 1/7

No person or organization may use a University facility for any purpose other than in the course of
the regular mission of the U. T. System or U. T. Dallas, unless authorized by the Regents' Rules.
Any authorized use must be conducted in compliance with the provisions of the Regents' Rules,
the approved rules and regulations of U. T. Dallas, and applicable federal, state, and local laws
and regulations.
The University permits the orderly use of its buildings, facilities, or grounds as provided in this
Chapter to further the educational process. The University does not endorse any statement or
activity that does not represent oﬃcial University action.
This Chapter summarizes institutional rules for the reservation of University facilities; the
identiﬁcation of persons present on University property; and the use of alcoholic beverages on
University property. Speech, assembly, and expression by students, faculty and staﬀ on University
property is further protected and regulated in UTDSP5001.
A student organization aggrieved by a decision under this chapter is entitled to appeal the decision to
the dean. The written appeal shall be submitted on or before the ﬁfth weekday after the decision is
announced. The appeal shall contain the organization’s name and mailing address, a concise
description of the decision, the organization’s reasons for disagreeing with the decision, and the date
the decision was announced.
As used in this Chapter, unless the context requires a diﬀerent meaning,
1. "adviser" means a member of the University faculty or full-time staﬀ who advises the members of
an organization;
2. ”weekday” means Monday through Friday except for oﬃcial University holidays; “day” means
calendar day;
3. "dean" means the Dean of Students or the dean’s delegate or representative;
4. “Registered faculty or staﬀ organization” includes a registered faculty or staﬀ organization under
Regents’ Rules;
Section 48.02: Appeal
Section 48.03: Deﬁnitions
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 2/7

5. "Registered student organization" includes a student organization registered under UTDSP5013;
the phrase also includes Student Government and any subdivision thereof;
6. "student" means a person enrolled at the university;
7. "university" means The University of Texas at Dallas; and
8. "university facility" includes any room or space, indoors or outdoors, owned or controlled by
the University.
Academic and administrative units, and registered student, faculty, and staﬀ organizations may
reserve the use of a university facility for purposes permitted by the Regents’ Rules.
The Student Government Association, a registered student, faculty, or staﬀ organization or an alumni
association may not reserve or use property, buildings, or facilities owned or controlled by the U. T.
System or U. T. Dallas for the purpose of engaging in any project or program with any association,
organization, or corporation, or with any individual or group of individuals that are not registered.
An organization with a reservation has the right to the reserved room or space for the time covered
by the reservation. Any person or organization using or occupying the room or space without a
reservation must yield control of the room or space in time to permit any organization with a
reservation to begin using the room or space promptly at the beginning of its reserved time.
Reservations are not required but are strongly encouraged. A person or organization planning to
use a room or space without a reservation may ﬁnd the facility locked or in use by another person
or organization.
An organization wishing to reserve the use of a university facility shall apply in writing on a form
prescribed by the dean.
Subchapter B: Reservation of a University Facility
Section 48.04: Permission to Use
Section 48.05: Application
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 3/7

An application for the use of any university facility must be made at least forty-eight (48) hours
before the time the event is scheduled to take place.
The dean shall approve a properly completed application to reserve room or space unless the dean
ﬁnds that:
1. the university facility requested is unavailable or is inadequate to accommodate the proposed use;
2. the applicant is under a disciplinary penalty prohibiting reserving the use of a university facility;
3. the proposed use of the room or space would violate Regents’ Rules;
4. a university facility requested for other than a class day cannot conveniently be made available on
that day;
5. the proposed use would constitute an immediate and actual danger to students, faculty or staﬀ or
to the peace or security of the University that available law enforcement oﬃcials could not control
with reasonable eﬀort;
6. the applicant owes a monetary debt to the University and the debt is considered delinquent;
7. the proposed use of the room or space would violate reasonable and nondiscriminatory ﬁre, health
or safety standards.
If the dean does not approve an application under Subsection (a), upon request the applicant will be
given a written statement of the grounds for refusal, within three weekdays.
Any person shall identify himself or herself when requested by an institutional representative while
on any property or in any building owned or controlled by the University or the University of Texas
System. A person identiﬁes himself or herself by:
1. giving his or her name and complete address substantiated by a current driver's license, voter
registration card, or other oﬃcial documentation; and
2. stating truthfully whether he or she is a student or employee of the University or University of
Texas System.
Section 48.06: Consideration of Application
Section 48.07: Identiﬁcation Required
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 4/7

An 'institutional representative' is:
1. any regent, executive oﬃcer, administrative oﬃcer, attorney, peace oﬃcer or security oﬃcer of the
University or the U. T. System.
Any person who refuses to identify himself or herself in accordance with this Subsection may be
convicted of a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of not more than $200.
Any student, faculty, or staﬀ who refuses to identify himself or herself in accordance with this
Subsection is subject to disciplinary action, including expulsion from the University in the case of
a student.
The use of alcoholic beverages is prohibited on property and in buildings and facilities owned or
controlled by the University or the U. T. System. However, the chief administrative oﬃcer of the
University or the U. T. System may waive this prohibition with respect to any speciﬁc event sponsored
by the University or the U. T. System. An event is sponsored if a budgeted oﬃce, department, or
division of the U. T. System or U. T. Dallas is responsible for organizing the event, inviting attendees,
and paying expenses related to the event, including the purchase of food and beverages. Meetings or
events sponsored by registered faculty, staﬀ, or student organizations are not events sponsored by
the University or the U. T. System. State law relating to alcoholic beverages will be strictly enforced at
all times on property and in buildings and facilities owned or controlled by the U. T. System and its
component institutions.
With the exception of certiﬁed support animals and animals involved in approved University
activities, animals are not permitted in any university building. Animal(s) may be brought onto campus,
other than in buildings, but should be appropriately restrained and/or contained. The owner shall be
responsible for cleaning up after the animal.
The President of the University, or his or her delegate, may designate one or more indoor and/or
outdoor areas that may be used for weddings, subject to the following conditions:
Section 48.08: Alcoholic Beverages
Section 48.09: Animals on Campus
Section 48.10: The Use of Facilities for Weddings
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 5/7

1. Requests for use of such space must be made at least fourteen (14) days in advance;
2. Use of such space for activities of the University shall have priority over weddings;
3. A charge for the use of such space will be made that at least recovers the actual cost;
4. The user shall be required to complete a Facilities Use Agreement and provide for
adequate insurance.
Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 6/7

Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5002 Use of University Facilities | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5002 7/7
