UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Academic Policies
Academic Advising
The University of Texas at Dallas values its students and is committed to the success of each and every
one. Professional academic advising is an important tool to help our students reach their goals. School
advisors guide students through an impressive oﬀering of degree plans. These advisors are familiar with
the speciﬁc departmental emphases and faculty research interests. They help students access and
communicate with faculty and instructors. Advisors assist students on issues including class suitability,
degree requirements, university policies and procedures, study skills, time management, campus
involvement and limited personal issues. Students will learn about required and elective options.
Advisors apply credit by examination and transfer credits and assist students in ensuring their degree and
graduation requirements are met. Students have access to advisors at any time but should plan to visit
with them at least once each semester. UT Dallas Professional Academic Advising is an outstanding
resource to help our students achieve their goals.
In addition to School based advising, the Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) oﬃce is
dedicated to providing academic advising to students who are at-risk for Academic Suspension. Students
not in good standing are required to meet with a SOAR advisor and follow a prescribed advising plan.
The individualized plan will be designed to help each student improve their academic standing by
addressing their speciﬁc needs including but not limited to study skills, time management skills, personal
issues, and appropriate campus oﬃce referrals. SOAR oﬃce advising is available to all students though
not required of students in good standing.
While advisors confer with students about courses and educational experiences, students themselves
are responsible for deﬁning the content of their academic program and making progress toward an
academic degree. Advisors will assist students in designing an appropriate course of study that will
satisfy requirements for graduation (see "Academic Degree Requirements") as well as oﬀer information
on particular courses and university rules and procedures. All students must verify their class schedule
each semester, must see that necessary transactions are completed, and are responsible for all
documentation related to schedule changes and other transactions.
Students who have chosen a major should meet with an academic advisor in the appropriate school
regularly and in a timely manner prior to semester drop deadlines and course registration. All freshmen
are required to meet with their advisor in order to register for classes (see "Registration"). Students
admitted to UT Dallas as freshmen or as sophomores who have not declared a major are advised by the
Undergraduate Student Advising Oﬃce, an integral part of the Oﬃce of Undergraduate Education.
Students remain the responsibility of Undergraduate Education until they declare a major, at which time
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 1/8

advising will be undertaken by an advisor in the student's program. Students must declare a major by the
time they become juniors in order to have their program advising conducted by the advisors in the school
in which they are registered.
All students admitted to UT Dallas as freshmen, eﬀective fall semester 2012, are required to ﬁle degree
plans no later than the end of the second semester following the semester in which the student earned
45 or more semester credit hours in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685.
Students are strongly encouraged to meet with their academic advisor, especially when they have earned
75 semester credit hours to establish and/or review their degree plan.
Academic Grievances
A student having a grievance regarding academic concerns may have the issue considered. In attempting
to resolve any student grievance regarding grades, evaluations, or other fulﬁllments of academic
responsibility, it is the obligation of the student ﬁrst to make a serious eﬀort to resolve the matter with
the instructor, supervisor, administrator, or committee with whom the grievance originated (hereafter
called "the respondent"). Individual faculty members retain primary responsibility for assigning grades
and evaluations. Procedures for student grievances are found in the University's Student Grievances
Policy, UTDSP5005.
Academic Progress
A student is considered to be making satisfactory scholastic progress when he or she is carrying an
approved schedule of classes, is not on probation, and has a GPA (grade point average) of at least 2.000
(C average) in the major and overall. Students who habitually drop a signiﬁcant fraction of their schedule
may lose the right to drop or may be dismissed from the University for failure to make adequate
academic progress.
Dean's List
The Dean's List recognizes students whose grades for the fall or spring semester represent the top ten
percent of all students within each school who complete 12 or more UT Dallas semester credit hours
within that semester. These students will be recognized as members of the Dean's List of their respective
schools. Students without a declared major are eligible for the Oﬃce of Undergraduate Education Dean's
List. Students pursuing a second baccalaureate degree, enrolled as transient and/or non-degree seeking,
and graduate students enrolled in undergraduate courses are not eligible for Dean's List. Only graded
courses contributing to a student's grade point average are included in the calculation of semester credit
hours.
Final Examinations
Final exams are integral components of the curriculum for all courses and must be given at the places
and times for such exams published by the Oﬃce of the Registrar in each semester's oﬃcial listing of
class schedules. When a ﬁnal exam is given in a course, it must be given at the time scheduled by the
Oﬃce of the Registrar during the ﬁnal examination period. Final exams will not be scheduled during
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 2/8

reading days. A ﬁnal exam must not last more than 2 hours and 45 minutes. Students for whom three or
more ﬁnal exams are scheduled in one day may petition to take the additional ﬁnal exams on diﬀerent
days.
Final Grade Changes
Instructor Initiated
After a ﬁnal grade has been recorded by the Oﬃce of the Registrar, the instructor may change ﬁnal
grades to correct a clerical error. An instructor initiated change of a ﬁnal grade due to a clerical error
requires the written approval of the instructor. Grade changes must be submitted by the end of the
eighth week of the following semester after the grade was awarded. Any grade change initiated after
the eighth week of the semester requires the written approval of the instructor, the department,
program head or Associate Dean, as determined by the school, and the Dean of Undergraduate
Education.
Final grade changes to replace temporary indicators such as I, NR and MG do not require additional
administrative approval. Faculty should follow the appropriate procedures for incompletes and NR
grades.
If the instructor is no longer associated with UT Dallas, the Associate Dean or department or program
head of the instructor's school may assign a committee of appropriate faculty to evaluate a grade
change.
Student Request
After a ﬁnal grade has been recorded by the Oﬃce of the Registrar, an undergraduate student may
seek an appeal for a ﬁnal grade that can be substantiated as arbitrary or capricious. It is the obligation
of the student to ﬁrst make a serious and prompt eﬀort to resolve the matter through discussion with
the instructor. If the student is dissatisﬁed with the decision of the instructor and has documentation
that substantiates their claim, the student may submit an appeal in the manner and timeline outlined
in Student Grievances Policy, UTDSP5005.
Grade Point Average
Grade points are computed by multiplying the points for each grade by the number of semester credit
hours; for example, 4.000 (A) x 3 (semester credit hours) = 12 grade points. A student's grade point
average (GPA) is determined by dividing the total number of grade points earned by the number of
semester credit hours for which a grade other than I, NC, or CR is received. All GPAs, term and
cumulative, are rounded from the fourth to the third digit, and three decimal places are displayed in this
catalog, Galaxy, unoﬃcial and oﬃcial transcripts.
NOTE: Only grades earned at The University of Texas at Dallas are used in calculating the student's GPA.
An undergraduate student is limited to three grade-bearing enrollment attempts for any speciﬁc class.
With regard to repeats, the grade from the ﬁrst repeat will substitute for the original grade to determine
a student's grade point average and to satisfy degree requirements. A second repeat will result in both
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 3/8

repeats being included when computing the student's cumulative grade point average. (See "Repeating
Coursework")
Grading Scale
UT Dallas uses the following grade scale for all undergraduate students.
Grade Description Grade Points per Semester Hour
A+ 4.000
A Excellent 4.000
A- 3.670
B+ 3.330
B Good 3.000
B- 2.670
C+ 2.330
C Fair 2.000
C- 1.670
D+ 1.330
D Poor 1.000
D- 0.670
F Failure 0.000
I Incomplete
CR Credit
NC No Credit
Academic Withdrawal
W Withdrawn
Non-academic Withdrawal
WC Withdraw Good Cause
WD Withdraw Death
WI Withdraw Illness
WU Withdraw from the University
WM Withdraw Military Duty
WW Withdraw Work
Incomplete Grades (I)
A grade of Incomplete may be given, at the discretion of the instructor of record for a course, when a
student is currently passing and, according to the academic calendar for that semester, has completed at
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 4/8

least 75% of the course. This policy should be considered when a student has made considerable eﬀort
to complete required course material but cannot complete all requirements by the end of the semester.
An incomplete course grade (grade of 'I') must be completed within the time period speciﬁed by the
instructor, not to exceed eight weeks from the ﬁrst day of the subsequent long semester. Upon
completion of the required work, the symbol 'I' may be converted into a letter grade (A through F) by the
instructor. If the grade of Incomplete is not removed by the end of the speciﬁed period, it will
automatically be changed to F.
Extension beyond the speciﬁed limit can be made only with the permission of the instructor, the
student's Associate Dean and the Undergraduate Dean. A student may not re-enroll in a course in which
a grade of 'I' remains. If a signiﬁcant fraction of a semester is missed with cause, see the section on
"Dropping and Withdrawing".
An instructor assigning an Incomplete ('I') must submit the petition/documentation form containing a
description of the work required to complete the course to the Undergraduate Associate Dean of the
school oﬀering the course no later than the last day of ﬁnal exam week. The instructor may obtain a
petition/documentation form for an Incomplete in the oﬃce of the School's Undergraduate Associate
Dean. The instructor alone will be responsible for determining whether the requirements for completion
are met and for assigning a grade in the course.
If the instructor who assigned the Incomplete ('I') is no longer associated with UT Dallas and the work is
completed within the time allowed before the Incomplete lapses to an F, the Associate Dean of the
instructor's school may assign a committee of appropriate faculty to evaluate the material and/or obtain
any other information that may be required to assign a grade in the course.
Mid-Term Grades
Students are issued mid-term grades to apprise them of their progress within the semester. Mid-term
grades are important for advising and retention purposes, therefore it is vital that the grades accurately
reﬂect academic progress. These grades are not a part of the permanent record and will not appear on
academic transcripts. Some classes will only issue a grade of credit or no credit at mid-term.
Scholastic Status
A student is required to maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) as speciﬁed for the
student's major to remain academically eligible to enroll for subsequent semesters. Only grades received
in UT Dallas classes are used to compute the GPA while transfer credit from other institutions accepted
by the University is calculated in the number of semester credit hours required for graduation. Scholastic
status is determined at the end of each academic semester.
Transcripts
Students may request copies of their oﬃcial transcripts from The Oﬃce of the Registrar online via Galaxy
or through registrar.utdallas.edu/transcript. All university holds must be cleared before requesting a
transcript. Transcripts will reﬂect the individual's complete academic record. Undergraduate and graduate
transcripts are issued together. Given seasonal time constraints, it is important that students request
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 5/8

oﬃcial transcripts in an appropriate time period to allow for processing and mailing. Please see regis-
trar.utdallas.edu/transcript for further details.
Falsifying or omitting information may result in withdrawal of any oﬀer of admission, in cancellation of
enrollment, and/or in disciplinary action.
Credit by Examination (AP, CLEP, IB, A/AS Levels)
Credit by examination is through such testing programs as the Advanced Placement Program (AP), the
College Level Examination Program (CLEP), The International Baccalaureate (IB), and A/AS Levels.
Students petition for credit by examination.
Petitioning examination of credit is recommended to be completed within the student's ﬁrst term at UT
Dallas, but not later than the ﬁrst day of the student's graduating term. A ﬁrst-year student must weigh
the advantages of accepting college credit through examinations against the possible impact such credit
might have on tuition rebate eligibility and their readiness for subsequent courses in an academic
sequence.
Guidelines and processes for credit by examinations are available here. UT Dallas must receive an oﬃcial
score report from the testing agency that provided the examination. UT Dallas does not accept
examination credit from other higher education institutions' transcripts. As credit is petitioned after
admission, credit by examination is not considered as part of an applicant's transferable GPA or transfer
hours for admissions.
Transfer Credit
The Oﬃce of the Registrar evaluates an applicant's completed ﬁle to determine which credits earned at
another college or university will transfer to UT Dallas. Once a student is admitted the student's record
will be articulated for all transfer work and will reﬂect those credits that have been accepted by UT
Dallas. The University of Texas at Dallas does not oﬀer credit for developmental or remedial studies, nor
does it grant credit for prior experiential learning. Some degree programs oﬀer credit for applied sciences
and applied technology coursework. Coursework that is accepted for transfer credit is applicable toward
satisfying requirements for a speciﬁc UT Dallas major according to the same criteria as those used for
equivalent UT Dallas courses. Please note: If a student transfers majors at UT Dallas, some transfer
credits from applied sciences or applied technology degrees might not be applicable to the new major.
Information about resolution of transfer disputes involving lower-division courses can be found in
Academic Policies under Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses.
The application of transfer credit to degree plans must be completed within the ﬁrst semester of
enrollment. An undergraduate advisor in the student's major, in consultation with the Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education, will determine how the transfer credits apply towards UT Dallas degree
requirements. The faculty, acting through the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education, has the
ultimate responsibility for applying transfer credit to their speciﬁc major requirements. Students are
urged to contact their advising oﬃce after transferring courses.
Transfer students who begin their ﬁrst semester with 45 or more semester credit hours are required to
ﬁle a degree plan with UT Dallas no later than the end of the student's ﬁrst long semester in accordance
with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685, subsection C.
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 6/8

To ensure that credit earned elsewhere will be applied toward your degree, continuing UT Dallas
students who wish to take courses elsewhere must meet with their academic advisor for approval.
Transcripts must be received prior to the ﬁrst day of classes in the graduating semester.
Evaluating and Awarding Credit for Non-Credit
Coursework Not Originating from the Institution
The University of Texas at Dallas does not award undergraduate academic credit for non-credit
coursework not originating from the institution except as required by legislation regarding exam credit
and military service, by terms agreed upon through a collaborative agreement with an outside entity, or
by individual petition to the program head of the student's declared major. The Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education provides ﬁnal approval of individual cases. Some schools or programs may opt
not to allow individual petitions as speciﬁed on their departmental webpages.
The cooperative agreement must be reviewed and approved by the program faculty, the school
administration, Council for Undergraduate Education, the Committee on Educational Policy, Academic
Senate, the Provost's Oﬃce, the University Registrar, and the University Attorney. Terms of the
agreement must specify the responsibilities of the outside entity, including their obligation to send
instructor credentialing information, course syllabi with articulated outcomes and participant
deliverables, and veriﬁcation of participants' completion, to the institution. Academically qualiﬁed UT
Dallas faculty provide annual oversight of the outside entity's content to ensure that non-credit work is
comparable in both content and rigor for the awarding of an equivalent UT Dallas credit experience in
the respective degree program.
Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses
The following procedures are established in the Texas Administrative Code, Title 19, Chapter 4,
Subchapter B, Section 4.27 of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board rule pertaining to transfer
of lower-division course credit. The designated oﬃcial at The University of Texas at Dallas to be
contacted regarding a transfer dispute for a lower-division course is the Dean of Undergraduate
Education.
4.27 Resolution of Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division
Courses
a. The following procedures shall be followed by public institutions of higher education in the
resolution of credit transfer disputes involving lower-division courses:
1. If an institution of higher education does not accept course credit earned by a student at another
institution of higher education, the receiving institution shall give written notice to the student
and to the sending institution that transfer of the course credit is denied, and shall include in that
notice the reasons for denying the credit. Attached to the written notice shall be the procedures
for resolution of transfer disputes for lower-division courses as outlined in this section,
accompanied by clear instructions outlining the procedure for appealing the decision to the
Commissioner.
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 7/8

2. A student who receives notice as speciﬁed in paragraph (1) of this subsection may dispute the
denial of credit by contacting a designated oﬃcial at either the sending or the receiving institution.
3. The two institutions and the student shall attempt to resolve the transfer of the course credit in
accordance with Board rules and guidelines.
4. If the transfer dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the student or the sending institution
within 45 days after the date the student received written notice of denial, the sending institution
may notify the Commissioner in writing of the request for transfer dispute resolution, and the
institution that denies the course credit for transfer shall notify the Commissioner in writing of its
denial and the reasons for the denial.
b. The Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee shall make the ﬁnal determination about a
dispute concerning the transfer of course credit and give written notice of the determination to the
involved student and institutions.
c. Each institution of higher education shall publish in its course catalogs the procedures speciﬁed in
subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this section.
d. The Board shall collect data on the types of transfer disputes that are reported and the disposition
of each case that is considered by the commissioner or the Commissioner's designee.
e. If a receiving institution has cause to believe that a course being presented by a student for transfer
from another school is not of an acceptable level of quality, it should ﬁrst contact the sending
institution and attempt to resolve the problem. In the event that the two institutions are unable to
come to a satisfactory resolution, the receiving institution may notify the Commissioner, who may
investigate the course. If its quality is found to be unacceptable, the Board may discontinue funding
for the course.
Reverse Transfer Transcripts
Pursuant to the "credit transfer for associate degree" statute, Texas Education Code, Section 61.833,
when a transfer student completes at least 66 semester credit hours, and 30 of these semester credit
hours were taken at a Texas community college, UT Dallas will review the student's record and request
the transcript to be sent to the Texas community college. UT Dallas will release the transcript to the
community college in accordance with student's authorization. The Texas community college will review
the UT Dallas transcript for possible completion of associate degree.
Updated: 2026-05-26 13:29:15 v5.0b873d
9/29/26, 7:35 PM Academic Policies - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2025 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas
https://catalog.utdallas.edu/2025/undergraduate/policies/academic 8/8
