Home / General Adminis / UTDBP3090
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to providing an educational, living and working
environment that is welcoming, respectful and inclusive of all members of the university community.
An environment that is free of discrimination and harassment allows members of the university
community to excel in their academic and professional careers. To that end, to the extent provided by
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Nondiscrimination
Section I. General Policy Guidelines
Section II. General Procedures
Section III. Informal Resolution Procedure
Section IV. Complaint Resolution Procedure
Section V. Miscellaneous
Other Relevant Policies, Procedures, and...
UTDBP3090
Nondiscrimination
Policy Statement
Nondiscrimination
Section I. General Policy Guidelines
A. Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 1/13

applicable federal and state law, the University prohibits unlawful discrimination against a person
because of their race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
The University also requires faculty, staﬀ and student employees to complete non-discrimination
training as required by federal, state and university regulations.
Retaliation against a person who ﬁles a claim of discrimination, participates in a discrimination
investigation or proceeding, or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice is prohibited.
This policy applies to visitors, applicants for admission to or employment with the University, and
students and employees of the university who allege discrimination by university employees,
students, visitors, or contractors. Complaints of full-time faculty who are notiﬁed that they will not be
reappointed, or that the subsequent academic year will be their terminal appointment, and who
contend that such decisions were made for unlawfully discriminatory reasons will be referred to the
Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost for handling pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of
the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System.
1. Discrimination is deﬁned as conduct directed at a speciﬁc individual or a group of identiﬁable
individuals that subjects the individual or group to treatment that adversely aﬀects their
employment or education because of their race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national
origin, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender expression or
gender identity.
2. Harassment as a form of discrimination is deﬁned as verbal or physical conduct directed at a
speciﬁc individual or a group of identiﬁable individuals that subjects the individual or group to
treatment that adversely aﬀects their employment or education because of their race, color,
religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability, genetic information, veteran
status, sexual orientation, gender expression or gender identity when such conduct is suﬃciently
severe, pervasive or persistent so as to have the purpose or eﬀect of interfering with an individual's
or group's academic or work performance; or of creating a hostile academic or work environment.
3. Verbal conduct is deﬁned as oral, written, or symbolic expressions that:
B. Scope
C. Deﬁnitions
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 2/13

personally describe or is personally directed at a speciﬁc individual or group of identiﬁable
individuals; and
is not necessary to an argument for or against the substance of any political, religious,
philosophical, ideological, or academic idea.
Constitutionally protected expression cannot be considered harassment under this policy.
4. >Retaliation is deﬁned as any adverse action (including, but not limited to, intimidation, threats,
coercion, harassment, or discrimination) taken against an individual involved in making a report or
ﬁling a complaint under this policy, ﬁling an external complaint, participating in an investigation or
disciplinary process, or opposing in a reasonable manner an action believed to constitute an
unlawful discriminatory act in violation of this policy.
1. The University provides training to all newly hired employees on the institutional policies and
procedures that prohibit discrimination. This training must be completed no later than (30) thirty
days after the date of hire. Completion of this training by all newly hired UT Dallas employees
is mandatory.
2. The University provides supplemental training for all employees on institutional policies and
procedures that prohibit discrimination. This training must be completed every two years.
Completion of this training by all faculty, staﬀ and student employees is mandatory.
3. If an electronic means of verifying completion of required training is not available, employees will
be required to sign a statement verifying the employee's completion of the required training.
4. Failure to complete the mandatory training required by this policy will be noted by the employee's
supervisor in the employee's next performance evaluation.
A person who believes that they have been subjected to discrimination or harassment in violation of
this policy should report the incident to any university oﬃcial, administrator, or supervisor. A faculty
member is not an "oﬃcial, administrator, or supervisor" for this purpose unless that faculty member
holds an administrative position. Students, employees, and campus visitors are encouraged to report
such incidents to the Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance (“IC”). Incidents should be reported as soon as
Section II. General Procedures
A. Training Procedures
B. Reporting
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 3/13

possible after the time of their occurrence, which in most cases will be within thirty (30) calendar
days. No person is required to report discrimination or harassment to the alleged oﬀender.
It is the responsibility of every supervisor, administrator, and University oﬃcial to promptly report
incidents of discrimination and harassment in violation of this policy that come to their attention even
if the employee is not in their reporting structure. Reports are to be made to the Oﬃce of
Institutional Compliance.
A person who believes they have been subjected to discrimination or harassment in violation of this
policy and seeks to take action may use either the informal resolution process or the formal complaint
process, or both. The informal resolution and formal complaint process described in this policy are not
mutually exclusive and neither is required as a pre-condition for choosing the other; however, they
cannot both be used at the same time.
All complaints against students, except for those that fall under the University's Sexual Misconduct
Policy – UTDBP3102, will be initially addressed by the Dean of Students Oﬃce. The Dean of
Students, or designee, will attempt to address the complaint through informal resolution as outlined
below. If attempts at informal resolution are unsuccessful, the complaint will be forwarded to IC and a
formal investigation will be initiated, if appropriate.
Informal resolution may be an appropriate choice when the conduct involved is not of a serious or
repetitive nature and disciplinary action is not anticipated to be required to remedy the situation. No
formal investigation is involved in the informal resolution process.
A request for informal resolution should be reported as soon as possible after the occurrence of the
incident, which in most cases will be within thirty (30) calendar days, to IC ,who shall determine
whether the nature of the problem is such that it can be resolved by agreement on an informal basis.
Methods for informal resolution may include, but are not limited to: coaching the person on how to
C. Reporting Responsibility
D. Resolution Options
E. Complaints Against Students
Section III. Informal Resolution Procedure
A. Informal Resolution
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 4/13

directly address a situation that is causing a problem; mediating the dispute with the parties; aiding in
the modiﬁcation of a situation in which the oﬀensive conduct occurred; assisting a department or
division with the resolution of a real or perceived problem; or arranging a documented meeting with
the alleged oﬀender that involves a discussion of the requirements of the Nondiscrimination Policy.
The University shall document any informal resolution. Such documentation shall be retained by the
Dean of Students Oﬃce or IC, as appropriate, and will be kept conﬁdential to the extent permitted
by law. An informal resolution meeting shall not be considered a precondition for the ﬁling of a
formal complaint.
A Complaint means a document alleging discrimination, including harassment under this policy.
Complainant means a person who submits a complaint alleging discrimination, including harassment
under this policy.
Respondent: Respondent means the person designated to respond to a complaint. Generally the
respondent would be the person alleged to be responsible for the prohibited discrimination or
harassment alleged in a complaint. The term "Respondent" may be used to designate persons with
direct responsibility for a particular action or those persons with administrative responsibility for
procedures and policies in those areas covered in a complaint.
Notiﬁcation: Notiﬁcation takes place two business days after the date of posting of any properly
addressed document in the United States mail, or upon the date of receipt of any document sent via
email. Written communications to a complainant are properly addressed when sent to the address
given in the complaint or the last address given since the ﬁling of the complaint.
1. Formal Complaint: A complaint alleging discrimination or harassment must be submitted to IC. It is
recommended that the Complainant provide the following information:
Name and UTD Identiﬁcation Number of the Complainant(s);
Contact information, including address, telephone, e-mail;
Section IV. Complaint Resolution Procedure
A. Deﬁnitions
B. Complaint Procedure
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 5/13

Name of person(s) directly responsible for alleged violation(s);
Date(s) and place(s) of alleged violation(s);
Nature of alleged violation(s) as deﬁned in this policy;
Detailed description of the speciﬁc conduct that is the basis of alleged violation(s);
Copies of documents pertaining to the alleged violation(s);
Names of any witnesses to alleged violation(s);
Action requested to resolve the situation; and
Any other relevant information.
The following communications do not constitute a complaint and will not be investigated or
resolved pursuant to the complaint resolution process:
Courtesy copies of correspondence or a complaint ﬁled with others
Inquiries that seek advice or information only
Pre-complaint consultations and informal resolution activities.
2. Time Limit: A written complaint should be ﬁled as soon as possible from the date of the occurrence
of the alleged violation, which in most cases will be within thirty (30) calendar days. Failure to
ﬁle a complaint in a timely manner may limit the University's ability to thoroughly investigate
the allegations.
3. Acknowledgement: Within ﬁve (5) business days after receipt of a written complaint, IC will send the
complainant a brief acknowledgment of the complaint, stating that the complaint will be evaluated,
and advising the complainant(s) that they will be contacted within a given time. The
acknowledgment letter will include a copy of the complaint procedures.
4. Complaint Evaluation: A formal investigation will be initiated if a complaint is complete, within the
scope of this policy and articulates suﬃcient speciﬁc facts, which, if determined to be true, would
support a ﬁnding that this policy was violated. The University may not proceed with a complaint
investigation under a variety of circumstances, for instance:
a complaint fails to describe in suﬃcient detail the conduct that is the basis of the complaint;
the conduct described in the complaint is not covered by this policy;
the complainant declines to cooperate in the University's investigation;
the complaint has been withdrawn; or
an appropriate resolution or remedy has already been achieved or has been oﬀered and rejected.
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 6/13

If it is determined that the University will not proceed with a complaint investigation, IC will send a
notiﬁcation letter explaining the reason(s) to the complainant, with a copy to the alleged oﬀender
when appropriate. The notiﬁcation letter will also include a statement informing the complainant
that, within ten (10) business days of the notiﬁcation, they may appeal the determination not to
proceed with a complaint investigation to the Chief Compliance Oﬃcer. If the Complainant is a
member of the faculty, the appeal will be forwarded to the Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and
Provost. The request for appeal must be a signed written document articulating why the decision to
dismiss the complaint was in error. The appropriate vice president will respond within twenty (20)
business days of receipt of the appeal. If the decision to dismiss is upheld, that decision is ﬁnal. If
the decision to dismiss is overturned, the complaint is sent back to IC for investigation in
accordance with the procedures outlined below.
5. Notiﬁcation of Respondent: If it is determined that the University will proceed with a complaint
investigation, IC will give the respondent written notiﬁcation of the complaint investigation. The
notiﬁcation letter will include a copy of the allegations. The notiﬁcation letter will provide the
respondent an opportunity to submit a written response to the allegations within ten (10) business
days, unless unusual circumstances warrant additional time. The notiﬁcation letter will include a
statement advising the respondent that retaliation against the complainant is prohibited and will
subject the respondent to appropriate disciplinary action.
6. Investigation Responsibility: IC is responsible for conducting all formal investigations of complaints
alleging discrimination and harassment in violation of this policy. If a complaint is directed
against an individual who would otherwise play a role in investigating and attempting to resolve
the complaint, the function assigned to that person by these procedures will be delegated to
another person.
7. Investigative Process and Findings: The investigator will interview both the complainant and the
respondent(s) and persons who are considered to have pertinent factual information related to the
complaint. The investigator shall also gather and examine documents relevant to the complaint.
Facts will be considered on the basis of what is reasonable to persons of ordinary sensitivity and
not on the particular sensitivity or reaction of an individual. Findings will be based on the totality of
circumstances surrounding the conduct complained of, including but not limited to: the context of
that conduct, its severity, frequency, whether it was physically threatening, humiliating, or was
simply oﬀensive in nature.
8. Representation: During the complaint process, the complainant(s) and the respondent(s) may
designate and thereafter be accompanied by an advisor of their choosing at meetings and
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 7/13

interviews at which they are present; however, no advisor may examine witnesses or otherwise
actively participate in a meeting or interview.
9. Submission of Evidence: During the complaint investigation process, the complainant(s) and
the respondent(s) will provide IC with all documents relied upon regarding the issues raised in
the complaint.
10. Report of Findings and Recommendation - Complaints Against Non-Students:
a. The investigator will provide a proposed statement of ﬁndings, copies of relevant documents and
any physical evidence considered to the appropriate vice president within thirty (30) business
days of receipt of the respondent's statement, unless unusual circumstances require more time.
The appropriate vice president to act on complaints against faculty and staﬀ will be the vice
president over the area where the respondent is employed. The appropriate vice president to act
on complaints against contractors will be the Vice President for Facilities and Economic
Development. The appropriate vice president to act on complaints against visitors will be the
Chief Compliance Oﬃcer. If a complaint is directed against a vice president who would otherwise
act on a complaint, the function assigned to that vice president will be delegated to the
President or their designee
b. The appropriate vice president will promptly notify the complainant and the respondent that the
investigation has been completed and attach a copy of the proposed statement of ﬁndings.
Student identiﬁable information, if any, which is conﬁdential by law, will be redacted. Within ten
(10) business days from the date of notiﬁcation, the complainant and respondent may each
submit, for consideration by the appropriate vice president, such comments and corrections as
they may have.
c. Within ten (10) business days of the notiﬁcation to the complainant and the respondent that the
investigation has been completed, the appropriate vice president and the investigator shall meet
to discuss the ﬁndings, and review the record, along with any comments and proposed
corrections submitted by the complainant and respondent.
d. Within ten (10) business days from that meeting, the vice president shall take one of the
following actions: a)request further investigation into the complaint; b)dismiss the complaint if
the results of the completed investigation are inconclusive or there is insuﬃcient reasonable,
credible evidence to support the allegation(s); or c)ﬁnd that this policy was violated.
e. If the vice president determines that this policy was violated, they will, following consultation
with the investigator, Human Resources, or other knowledgeable persons as appropriate, shall
determine a disciplinary action that is appropriate for the severity of the conduct. Disciplinary
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 8/13

actions can include, but are not limited to, written reprimands, the imposition of conditions,
reassignment, suspension without pay, and termination.
f. The vice president shall inform the complainant and respondent(s), and the appropriate unit head
in writing of their decision, and shall attach a copy of the ﬁnal statement of ﬁndings. Copies
of the vice president's letter, the attached statement of ﬁndings, and relevant documents
shall also be sent to the Oﬃce of the Dean of Students or the Oﬃce of Human Resources,
Institutional Compliance.
11. Report of Findings and Recommendation - Complaints Against Students:
a. The investigator will provide a proposed statement of ﬁndings, copies of relevant documents and
any physical evidence considered to the Dean of Students within ten (10) business days of
receipt of the respondent's statement, unless unusual circumstances require more time. The
Dean of Students and the investigator shall meet within ﬁfteen (15) business days to discuss the
ﬁndings, and review the record.
b. Within ten (10) business days from that meeting, the Dean of Students shall take one of the
following actions: a)request further investigation into the complaint; b)dismiss the complaint if
the results of the completed investigation are inconclusive or there is insuﬃcient reasonable,
credible evidence to support the allegation(s); or c)ﬁnd that this policy was violated.
c. If the Dean of Students determines that this policy was violated, the Dean, following
consultation with the investigator or other knowledgeable persons as appropriate, shall
determine whether to initiate a disciplinary action appropriate to the severity of the conduct
pursuant to University Policy UTDSP5003 (Student Code of Conduct), Section B, Administration
of Discipline. Disciplinary actions can include, but are not limited to, a documented warning, the
imposition of conditions, probation, suspension, and dismissal.
d. As required by federal law, any disclosure of the ﬁndings and decision of the Oﬃce of the Dean
of Students will be governed by the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act.
1. Any employee disciplined pursuant to this policy, except faculty, graduate research assistants,
graduate teaching assistants, graduate assistants or members of the University of Texas at Dallas
Police Department (each of whom are subject to separate grievance procedures), may grieve that
action by submitting a written grievance, within ten (10) business days of the imposition of the
Section V. Miscellaneous
A. Grievance of a Disciplinary Action:
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 9/13

disciplinary action, to the president's oﬃce. Ordinarily, the president will assign responsibility for
review and action on the appeal of the vice president's action to another vice president; however,
when required by unusual circumstances, the president may review and handle a grievance
pursuant to this policy.
2. If the disciplinary action that is being grieved does not involve termination, demotion, or
suspension without pay, the vice president shall thoroughly review and ﬁnally decide the matter
within thirty (30) calendar days of its receipt unless unusual circumstances require more time.
3. If the disciplinary action that is being grieved involves the termination, demotion or suspension
without pay of a faculty member with the rank of Regental Professor, Professor, Associate
Professor, Assistant Professor, or Instructor, the vice president or provost who is assigned to review
the grievance shall follow the procedures for appealing such actions contained in the UTD Faculty
Grievance Procedure, UTDPP1050. Complainants will be required to appear and testify at hearings
that may be a part of such proceedings.
4. Any student disciplined under this policy has the right to appeal as provided in University
Policy UTDSP5003, Section G (Appeals). The student must give written notice of appeal to the
Vice President for Student Aﬀairs within seven (7) calendar days after all parties are notiﬁed of
the decision.
A student, faculty, or staﬀ member who retaliates in any way against an individual who has brought a
complaint pursuant to this policy or participated in good faith in an investigation of such a complaint,
is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal from the University.
Any person who knowingly and intentionally ﬁles a false complaint under this policy is subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal from the University.
The ﬁling of a nondiscrimination or retaliation complaint will not stop or delay any evaluation or
disciplinary action related to the complainant who is not performing up to acceptable standards or
who has violated University rules or policies.
B. Retaliation Prohibited:
C. Filing of False Complaints:
D. Eﬀect on Pending Personnel Actions:
E. Relationship of Complaint Process to Outside Agency Time Limits:
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 10/13

The ﬁling of a discrimination or harassment complaint under this policy does not excuse the
complainant from meeting the time limits of outside agencies.
This complaint procedure shall also constitute the grievance procedure for complaints alleging
unlawful discrimination. As used herein, "complaint" is synonymous with "grievance."
Time frames mentioned in these procedures may be extended for good cause, such as holidays or
when classes are not in session, or when it is necessary to complete an investigation due to
diﬃculties reaching witnesses or parties to the complaint.
The University shall maintain documents related to complaints under this policy as required by law. IC
shall be primarily responsible for records related to complaints. The conﬁdentiality of a complaint
under this policy and all documents, correspondence, interviews and discussions relating to the
investigation of the information contained in a complaint will be maintained on a need-to-know basis
to the extent permitted by law. Any person who knowingly and intentionally makes an unauthorized
disclosure of conﬁdential information contained in a complaint or otherwise relating to the
investigation of a complaint under this policy is subject to disciplinary action.
For Assistance: Questions regarding this policy should be directed to Institutional Compliance.
Sources: Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; Age Discrimination in
Employment Act of 1967, as amended; Age Discrimination Act of 1975; Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990; Equal Pay Act of 1963; Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act;
Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008; Executive Order of 11246, as amended;
Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Title IX of the Education Amendments of
1972; Texas Labor Code, Chapter 21; UT System Board of Regents Rule 10701, 31002, 31007; UT
System Policy UTS105.
F. Relationship to Grievance Procedure:
G. Time Frame:
H. Documentation and Conﬁdentiality:
Other Relevant Policies, Procedures, and Forms
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 11/13

Consensual Relationships - UTDBP3103
Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation - UTDBP3105
Student Code of Conduct - UTDSP5003
Discipline and Dismissal of Classiﬁed Employees - UTDBP3056
University Policy on Faculty Conduct - UTDPP1049
Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 31008, Termination of a Faculty Member
Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 30105, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, and
Consensual Relationships
University of Texas System Administration Systemwide Policy (UTS 184), Consensual Relationships
Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 12/13

Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3090 13/13
