Online/Blended Teaching Handbook 
 
 
The University of Texas at Dallas  
eLearning Team 
 
5/2024

2 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Introduction……………………………………………………………………….….. 3 
 
Organizational Information……….……………………………………………….... 3 
 
Philosophy………………………………………………………………………….… 3 
  Definition of Distance Education……………………………………………..….... 3 
  Effectiveness of Online/Blended Instruction…………………………………...... 3  
  Mission of Online/Blended Learning Programs………………..……………..…. 4  
  Online/Blended Course Standards……………………………………………….. 4 
 
Course Development ……………………………………………………………….. 5 
  Online Teaching Certification……………………………………………….…..... 5 
  Procedures…………………………………………………………………….…..... 5 
  Syllabus……………………………………………………………………….…..… 5 
  Learning Objectives………………………………………………………..……..... 6 
  Textbook Selection……………………………………………………….……….... 6 
  Course Activities/Assessment…………………………………………..………..… 6 
  Communication…………………………………………………………...…...…… 7 
  Group Presentations…………………………………………………….….....…… 7 
  Assignments……………………………..………………………………..……...….. 7 
  Online Tests…………………………………………………………….…….....….. 8 
  Uploading Course Materials…………………...……………………….…………. 8 
  Course Review……...………………………………………………….…………… 8 
 
Technology……………………………………………………………….…....……… 9 
  Getting Started……………………………………………………………………… 9 
  Course Development Tools…………………………………………………....……  9 
  Training/Tech Support………………………………………………………….….  10 
 
Faculty …………………………………………………………………….…………. 11 
  Responsibilities……………………………………………………………………... 11 
 
Staff………………………………………………………………………..…...……… 12 
  Responsibilities……………………………………………………………………… 12 
 
Students…………………………………………………………….………….……... 12 
  Requirements………………………………………………………………..……… 12 
  Knowledge/Attitude/Skills………………………………………………..…...…… 12 
 
Legal Issues…………………………………………………………………..………. 13 
  Copyrighted Material……………………………………………….………...……. 13 
  Accessibility……………………………………………………………..…………... 13 
 
References………………………………………………………………….…………. 14

3 
Introduction 
Online/Blended education is becoming commonplace in colleges and universities 
throughout the world. It is the goal of this manual to facilitate a smooth entrance into 
online/blended teaching by outlining processes and procedures for creating and teaching 
your course. Topics covered include: Organizational Information, Philosophy, Course 
Development, Technology, Faculty, Staff, Students, and Legal Issues.    
           TOP 
 
Organizational Information 
Programs. The fully online degree programs at the University of Texas at Dallas are 
extensions of campus programs. Internet-based programs have been available since 1999.   
         
Administration. The programs are managed by the program heads.  
 
Course Development. Courses are developed by faculty with support from the UTD 
eLearning Team.  
  TOP  
 
Philosophy 
Definition of Distance Education. Distance education is defined as planned learning that 
normally occurs in a different place from teaching and as a result requires special 
techniques of course design, special instructional techniques, special methods of 
communication by electronic and other technology, as well as special organizational and 
administrative arrangements (Moore & Kearsley, 1996).  
 
Title 19, Texas Administrative Code, Part 1, Chapter 2, Subchapter J, Rule §2.202, states 
that a 100-percent online course is “A distance education course in which 100 percent of 
instructional activity takes place when the student(s) and instructor(s) are in separate 
physical locations. Requirements for on-campus or in-person orientation, testing, 
academic support services, internships/fieldwork, or other non-instructional activities do 
not exclude a course from this category.”  Generally speaking, online courses at UT 
Dallas are 100% online and do not require face-to-face sessions. A “hybrid” or “blended” 
course is “A distance education course in which more than 50 percent but less than 100 
percent of instructional activity takes place when the student(s) and instructor(s) are in 
separate physical locations.”   
           TOP 
 
Effectiveness of Online Instruction. Many have questioned if distance education is as 
effective as traditional education. A compilation of research findings entitled The No 
Significant Difference Phenomenon (NSDP) explores the effective use of technology, 
chiefly distance learning, compared to alternative methods or techniques of 
teaching.  The annotated studies in the original article are arranged chronologically. 
There are 355 research reports, summaries, and papers cited in which no significant 
difference was reported between the variables compared (Russell, 1999).

4 
The US Department of Education conducted a meta-analysis comparing online, blended, 
and face-to-face effectiveness. It was found that “…blended instruction has been more 
effective, providing a rationale for the effort required to design and implement blended 
approaches. When used by itself, online learning appears to be as effective as 
conventional classroom instruction, but not more so.” (Means, Toyama, Murphy, Bakia, 
Jones, 2010).           
           TOP 
 
Mission of Online/Blended Learning Programs. The mission of online/blended 
programs at The University of Texas at Dallas is to provide high quality educational 
opportunities to students who may be at a geographic disadvantage, have employer travel 
and other conflicts which prevent on-campus class attendance, have course conflicts, or 
have personal circumstances that require scheduling flexibility.      
           TOP 
 
 
Online/Blended Course Standards. The University of Texas at Dallas’ standards for 
online/blended courses are as follows. 
 
Online/Blended courses will: 
• adhere to the same rigorous standards as traditional courses. 
• result in learning outcomes appropriate to the credit awarded. 
• comply with the “Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board Distance 
Education Advisory Committee Guide for Incorporating The Principles of Good 
Practice into Electronically-Based Courses.”  
• utilize the best available technology and pedagogy to create and provide a high 
quality educational experience to students. 
• be taught by academically qualified faculty.  
• include regular communication and feedback to students. 
• be regularly updated. 
 
Online/Blended courses follow the same academic calendar as face-to-face sections. The 
faculty member responsible for conducting each course is required to develop all content 
and a corresponding syllabus which will include assignments, texts, due dates, grading 
rubrics, and other relevant information.   
 
 TOP

5 
 
 
Course Development 
The instructor is responsible for designing and building the course, but is encouraged to 
contact instructional designers as needed for training, technical support, and pedagogical 
assistance. Services such as the recording studio are available on a first-come, first-served 
basis. The instructor should review and follow the Texas Higher Education Coordinating 
Board's Principles of Good Practice (PGP) (Approved Oct 2023)  a nd will need to 
complete the UT Dallas Principle of Good Practice Form. 
TOP 
 
Online Teaching Certification. The eLearning Team offers Online Teaching 
Certifications to  faculty (full- time and adjunct) and Graduate Teaching Assistants 
(including Post-Doctoral associates) who have instructional responsibilities. 
 
The program is online, self-paced, and allows instructors to experience the online tools 
and educational environment as students prior to teaching. The learning materials focus 
on pedagogy, University policies and processes, eLearning LMS functionality, and other 
educational technology tools. 
TOP 
 
Procedures. The following procedures should be followed for the preparation of 
materials.  
 
The instructor should: 
• schedule a course design consultation with an instructional designer as needed. 
• make arrangements with instructional designers to receive technology training as 
needed. 
 
The development of course materials is time consuming. Sufficient time must be 
allocated to this process to ensure the course is complete prior to the start of the semester. 
Examples of course materials used in distance education courses include text-based 
lectures, multimedia presentations, interactive web-based exercises, case studies, and 
instructor videos. The instructional design staff is committed to supporting faculty, but 
content and the creation of course materials is ultimately the responsibility of the 
instructor. 60 hours is a good estimate of how much time you will spend preparing a 
course. 
 
Additionally, professors are encouraged to seek advice and assistance from the UT Dallas 
eLearning team for face-to-face courses that utilize the university’s learning management 
system or other educational technologies. 
TOP 
 
Syllabus. The syllabus is the roadmap to the course. A rough draft of this document 
should be created very early in the course development process. This document will 
ultimately contain all of the information students will need for the course including

6 
textbook information, due dates, special instructions, etc. An Online/Blended Course 
Syllabus Template can be found on the Office of the Provost’s Syllabus Templates 
website.  
TOP 
Learning Objectives. Like courses taught in the traditional classroom, distance education 
courses should be based on objectives. The instructor should develop a list of objectives 
for the course as a whole, as well as for each section (or module/unit)*. Here is an 
example of course/module objectives: 
 
Course Objectives:  
• After completing Strategic Management 101, the student will explain core 
concepts and provide examples of their relevance and use by actual companies. 
• After completing Strategic Management 101, the student will present explanations 
of analytical tools used in the managerial process of crafting and executing 
strategy. 
 
Module Objectives: 
• After completing Module 1, the student will list the components of Porter's Five 
Forces. 
• After completing Module 1, the student will define key success factors (KSF’s).  
      
     *Instructional designers are available should the instructor need assistance writing 
objectives.     
           TOP 
 
Textbook Selection. The instructor should select textbooks/case studies and communicate 
this information to the area administrative assistant (who will pass it on to the bookstore 
at least four weeks prior to the start of each semester to provide ample time for ordering 
and shipment). Please contact the bookstore and the publisher if you are interested in 
creating a custom textbook or an eBook. Many textbooks come with supplemental online 
course material. Please contact an instructional designer if you would like assistance 
importing this material into your course.  
           TOP 
 
 
Course Activities/Assessments. Activities for assessing students in an online course can 
be as dynamic as in traditional face-to-face classes. Instructors have the options of 
incorporating graded activities such as discussions (threaded, blogs, journals), group 
presentations, papers, and online or proctored exams. 
 
A common question is, “How much recorded lecture should go into an online course?” 
Credit hour calculation in online courses is not necessarily as clear cut as in the face-to-
face setting. For instance, in a class taught in the traditional format, a three -credit course 
might require 45 hours of classroom time, plus two hours of homework time per each 
hour of classroom time, totaling 135 hours.

7 
It is recommended that instructors DO NOT  record 45 hours of lecture, but instead 
meet the 135 total hours in the online environment by calculating the student’s time 
on task. There are many academic activities in which students can participate to 
achieve this. An example week might include a student viewing a recorded lecture (1 
hour), working on a discussion board assignment (2 hours), reading (2 hours), taking 
an online quiz (1 hour), contributing to group work (2 hours), and participating in a 
team web conference (1 hour) . Instructional designers are available for 
assistance/consultation  on course design and best practices to help transition  a course 
from the traditional classroom to the online environment.    
 
Communication. 
• Announcement: Post reminders, news and updates to the entire class. 
• Discussion: Questions or discussion topics are posted on the discussion board in 
threaded, blog or journal format. The amount and quality of student interaction 
can be graded. 
• Email: Instructor and students can use Course Messages or UTD email tool to 
exchange information and address any issues and concerns. 
• Web conference: Web conferences provide various methods of synchronous 
communication, including audio, voice-chat, text chat, and desktop and 
application sharing. These can be recorded and viewed asynchronously as well.   
• Group tools: Groups can use group communication and collaboration tools for 
group assignments.         
          TOP 
Group Presentations. 
• Student presentations: In the Group Discussion area in eLearning, students may 
be given a private venue to post discussions and files (such as Word documents, 
PowerPoint presentations and Excel spreadsheets). The instructor has the option 
to make these files available when the work is complete. The work can be graded 
by the instructor and critiqued by students. 
• Class Discussion Forum: Groups can present in the designated class discussion 
forum for feedback and comments.  
• Group presentations via web conference: Student presenters can upload 
PowerPoints (or any other type of document) and conduct a web-based 
presentation using audio, text chat, and desktop/application sharing. Content, 
delivery, and attendance can be recorded.  
          TOP 
 
Assignments.  Assignments may be submitted electronically via the eLearning 
Assignment tool. Notes can be made on the submission and returned electronically if 
desired. As in the traditional classroom, plagiarism is a concern. Turn-it-in is a software 
program that can scan a student’s paper and compare it to millions of previously 
submitted papers and literary works in a database. A report is then displayed that flags 
potentially plagiarized sections. This tool is available for use in all eLearning courses. 
 
           TOP

8 
Online Tests. A test can be created within eLearning that can be automatically scored and 
entered into the Grade Book. At the instructor’s discretion, results can be made available 
to the student. It is recommended that the instructor write questions that test higher levels 
of learning as opposed to rote knowledge. For background on this, please see Bloom’s 
Taxonomy.  
 
To address the issue of test security, the instructor should set up the test as follows: 
• Randomize questions from the test bank to ensure that students do not receive 
identical tests. 
• Randomize the answers so that if students do receive the same question, the 
answer order will not coincide between tests. *Do not do this with questions that 
have answer options such as “all of the above, none of the above, etc.” as when 
answers are randomized it will cause confusion. 
• Adjust settings so one question appears at a time to discourage students from 
printing test questions. 
• Set a time limit on the test to minimize the possibility of students looking up 
several answers in the textbook. 
• Shorten the test availability time window. 
• The Testing Center can host proctored exams. Students at a distance can make 
arrangements to take proctored exams at an approved testing facility.  
• The online proctored exam service Honorlock can be used. 
• Limit the amount of time and details when test results are released.  
TOP 
 
Uploading Course Materials. Once the course materials are created, they must be 
uploaded to eLearning. The instructor with assistance from an instructional designer 
should develop an intuitive course structure to ensure ease of navigation for the student. 
 
TOP 
 
Course Review. The instructor is responsible for reviewing all aspects of the course for 
accuracy. Once the course meets the instructor’s approval, the instructor must sign off on 
the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board Distance Education Advisory 
Committee’s Guide for Incorporating The Principles of Good Practice into Electronically 
Based Courses by submitting the UT Dallas Principle of Good Practice Form. The course 
will also be reviewed by a faculty peer review. Finally, the course is to be approved by 
the program head. 
           TOP

9 
 
Technology 
Getting Started. To ensure access and proper functioning of course materials, the 
following steps should be taken: 
 
Access 
• Ensure there are no issues with the instructor’s NetID or password.  If issues exist, 
contact the UTD Helpdesk at 972-883-2911 or assist@utdallas.edu.  
 
Browsers and Operating Systems 
• View Blackboard's Browser and OS Requirements. 
 
Software 
• Microsoft Office (install the latest supported version). Contact the help desk at 
972-883-2911 to install this at no charge. 
• Virus detection/protection software.  
• Plug-ins may be required to view media in or your eLearning class, such as 
Adobe Acrobat Reader. 
• Login to your eLearning account. 
Note: If you have problems logging in, see a wrong course listed, or do not see a 
course listed, contact the eLearning Help Desk or 1-866-588-3192. 
• To customize your eLearning course, contact the eLearning Team at 
elearning@utdallas.edu.  
                    TOP 
 
 
Course Development Tools. In an Internet-based course, the teacher and learner can be in 
different places at different times. Just as in the traditional classroom, communication is 
essential for a course to be successful. The instructor and students may maintain constant 
contact via announcements, discussion boards, web conferences, and emails. By using a 
combination of asynchronous and synchronous tools, the barriers of space and time are 
eliminated. In addition to the communication tools mentioned, information may be 
conveyed to students in several ways such as text, audio, multimedia, synchronized slide 
presentations with audio, and simulations.  
 
Listed below are brief descriptions of some technologies used in distance education 
courses: 
• eLearning: A course management tool (or container) where all 
materials/communication tools, grade book, etc. reside. 
• Streaming video: Allows students to access video clips via the Internet without 
any files being downloaded to their computers. 
• PowerPoint: A component of Microsoft Office that facilitates computer-based 
slide presentations.  
• Camtasia: Allows the creation of multimedia presentations for viewing via 
computer. Translates presentations into to streaming multimedia presentations.

10 
• Respondus: Enhances the functionality and usability of eLearning's quiz, survey, 
and self-test tools. This tool saves considerable time developing tests by allowing 
the creation of all questions in a single text file and importing them directly into 
the eLearning test bank. This can be downloaded for free. 
• Adobe Acrobat: A cross-platform (any computer can open it) program that can 
convert Word Documents, Excel Spreadsheets, and PowerPoint Presentations into 
a file that is very difficult to alter. PDF files tend to be much smaller, therefore 
taking less time to download.  
• Microsoft Word: A program for generating text documents. 
• Microsoft Excel: A program used to generate spreadsheets. 
• Tablet PC recording: Allows graphic illustration of any computer application. 
• Library for Distance Students: Distance students may access UTD Library 
resources including a chat-based reference service, a document delivery service 
(books, articles, and media are sent via mail), and connection to the UTD Catalog. 
• Web conferencing: A tool used for synchronous class meetings and small group 
discussions. Capabilities include file sharing, audio/voice chat, video, 
desktop/application sharing, and interactive features. 
• Recording studio: This facility may be scheduled to record and edit audio/video 
material. The material can then be produced and uploaded into the learning 
management system for students to access.     
TOP 
 
 
Training/Tech Support: In order to get help as quickly as possible, please direct your 
question to the proper contact. 
• NetID issues: assist@utdallas.edu or 972-883-2911. 
• eLearning course issues: eLearning Help Desk or 1-866-588-3192. 
• Assistance developing/uploading materials, creating tests, general eLearning 
questions: elearning@utdallas.edu. 
• Training Requests: eLearning Faculty Training Site.     
            
TOP

11 
 
Faculty 
Once the course is complete, the instructor is responsible for managing it throughout the 
semester. This management includes monitoring the course, communicating regularly 
with students, grading assignments and assessments in a timely manner, updating the 
grade book, etc. A breakdown of the responsibilities of faculty, staff, and teaching 
assistants follows.  
 
Responsibilities. 
 
Prior to 
Course 
Offering 
• Attend a course development meeting with an instructional designer if needed. 
• Request training as needed.  
• Schedule studio recording time if needed. 
• Ensure course is available in eLearning. 
• Ensure all course materials are in compliance with accessibility standards. 
• Prepare course materials (syllabus, lectures, quizzes, etc.) in accordance to the 
course development timeline. 
• Communicate textbook/case studies to be used with bookstore. 
• Keep course materials up to date. 
• Obtain clearance for copyrighted materials. 
• Review course in its entirety at least two weeks prior to course offering. 
• Make needed corrections/updates. 
• Ensure the course is complete prior to the start of the semester. 
During 
Course 
Offering 
• Respond to student questions within 48 hours. 
• Regular communication with students (announcement, discussion board, email, 
web conference, etc.). 
• Schedule and communicate times for synchronous communication (web 
conference/chat) with students if needed. 
• Maintain online course throughout the semester (discussions, group formation, 
grade book, assignment submissions, calendar, course material uploads after 
course release). 
After Course 
Offering 
• Review course evaluations. 
• Reflect on experiences in the course. 
• Determine necessary changes for the next offering. 
 
TOP

12 
 
Staff 
Instructional designers will:  
• conduct workshops for faculty and TAs. 
• conduct individualized training sessions for faculty and TAs. 
• assist with media selection, design, and development. 
• provide guidance on copyright clearance. 
• provide guidance on accessibility issues. 
• provide technical assistance.   
• evaluate and offer suggestions for course revisions. 
          TOP 
 
Students 
Admission requirements and tuition are the same as for traditional students. The fees are 
comparable to traditional classes (there is a distance learning fee, but students are exempt 
from fees such as student union, recreational facility and medical service). Students can 
take online courses and traditional classroom courses simultaneously. 
 
Requirements.  
Students will:  
• have regular access to a computer that meets the specifications outlined. 
• have regular access to a reliable Internet connection. 
• access eLearning three times per week (minimum).   
            TOP 
 
Knowledge/Attitude/Skills.  
The online student must be: 
• proficient using a computer. 
• disciplined to complete projects by deadlines. 
• a self-starter with intrinsic motivation to read, write, and participate fully in class 
activities. 
• able to manage time effectively. 
• able/willing to work independently and in virtual teams.     
• willing to devote approximately 9-10 hours a week to a 3-credit course. 
• committed to academic honesty. 
• willing to contact the instructor immediately should course content issues arise. 
• willing to contact technical support immediately should a technical issue arise.  
 
TOP

13 
Legal Issues 
Copyrighted Material. The instructor may not use copyrighted material without proper 
clearance. Obtaining clearance to use copyrighted material is the responsibility of the 
instructor. To determine if clearance needs to be obtained, the following four factors 
should be considered: 
1. The purpose and character of the use, including whether use is of a commercial 
nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes. 
2. The nature of the copyrighted work. 
3. The amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted 
work as a whole. 
4. The effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted 
work. 
 
It is recommended that the instructor reviews the UT System’s Crash Course in 
Copyright. 
TOP 
 
Accessibility. Course materials should be accessible to students, regardless of disability. 
A text equivalent for every non-text element should be included for all course materials. 
This includes images, graphics, video, and audio files. A detailed set of guidelines can be 
found at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) website. 
 
A student identifying him/herself as having a disability should be directed to the UTD 
AccessAbility Resource Center. Phone: 972-883-2098.     
            
TOP

14 
References 
 
Means, B., Toyama, Y., Murphy, R., Bakia, M. & Jones, K., (2010). Evaluation of 
Evidence-Based Practices in Online Learning: A Meta-Analysis and Review of Online 
Learning Studies. U.S. Department of Education Office of Planning, Evaluation, and 
Policy Development Policy and Program Studies Service. 
   
Moore, M. & Kearsley, G. (1996). Distance Education: A Systems View. California: 
Wadsworth Publishing Company. 
 
Russell, T. L. (1999). The No Significant Difference Phenomenon. Raleigh, North 
Carolina: North Carolina State University.  
 
Schlosser, L.A. & Simonson, M. (2002). Distance Education: Definition and Glossary of 
Terms. Bloomington, IN: Association for Educational Communication and Technology.  
            
TOP
