Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1121
The University of Texas at Dallas (UT Dallas) is committed to upholding and preserving academic
freedom and the tenets of free, open inquiry and expression that underlie it. Academic freedom
protects intellectual integrity and encourages open discourse, inquiry, debate, and respect, and is
integral to the pursuit of knowledge. UT Dallas is determined to protect academic freedom by
fostering a community in which scholarship, research, and free expression thrive.
In accordance with the Association of University Professors' 1940 Statement of Principles on
Academic Freedom and Tenure, UT Dallas recognizes academic freedom as the freedom to conduct
the fundamental activities of a community of scholars and students: the freedom to learn, the
freedom to teach, and the freedom to develop and share knowledge with the community - all without
fear of censorship or retaliation. Reasoned arguments for or against any idea - even if controversial or
oﬀensive - are critical to this process as "controversy is at the heart of the free academic enquiry"
(AAUP 1940 Statement). UT Dallas concurs with the AAUP 1940 Statement that "the common good
depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition."
No UT Dallas policy or procedure shall infringe on academic freedom, due process, or other protected
rights. UT Dallas' network of academic governance committees work together to ensure the
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Related Policies
UTDPP1121
Academic Freedom
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1121 Academic Freedom | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1121 1/4

University has procedures to safeguard academic freedom. Faculty who believe their academic
freedom has been infringed upon can discuss the matter with the Committee on Faculty Standing and
Conduct. Faculty also have recourse to the Faculty Grievance Procedure UTDPP 1050.
The following section from UT System Board of Regents' Rule 31004 upholds the rights outlined by
the American Association of University Professors and the University.
"Section 1 Freedom in Research. Faculty members are entitled to full freedom in research and in the
publication of the results.
Section 2 Freedom in the Classroom. Faculty members are entitled to freedom in the classroom in
discussing his or her subject but are expected not to introduce into their teaching controversial
matter that has no relation to his or her subject.
Section 3 Clariﬁcation of Role. Faculty members are citizens, members of learned professions, and
oﬃcers of an educational institution supported by the State of Texas. When the faculty member
speaks or writes as a citizen, he or she should be free from institutional censorship or discipline but
should make it plain that the faculty member is not an institutional spokesperson.
Section 4 Primary Duties. The primary duties of a member of the faculty are to:
4.1 Teaching. Teach in the classroom, laboratory, seminar, or clinical setting.
4.2 Research. Study, investigate, discover, create, and develop professionally.
4.3 Administration. Perform curricular tasks auxiliary to teaching and research, e.g., serving on
faculty committees, attending to administrative and disciplinary tasks, fostering intellectual
curiosity and integrity in the student body.
4.4 Contribution to Society. Use their professional expertise to beneﬁt society."
Faculty--and all members of the UT Dallas community tasked with faculty duties--are free to express
their opinions and use their professional expertise to carry out their teaching, research, administrative
responsibilities and external academic activities. Limitations on academic freedom undermine the
greater purpose of institutions of higher education, to the detriment of the common good.
Academic freedom does not grant the right to violate UT Dallas policies including, but not limited to,
UTDPP1100 (Conﬂicts of Interest and Conﬂicts of Commitment) and UTDPP1101 (Outside Activity
Policy for All Employees, Excluding Executive Oﬃcers and Employees Involved in Procurement
Activities or Contract Management).
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1121 Academic Freedom | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1121 2/4

Regents' Rule 31004 - Rights and Responsibilities of Faculty Members
Regents' Rule 30104 - Conﬂicts of Interest, Conﬂict of Commitment, and Outside Activities
UTDPP1100 - Conﬂicts of Interest and Conﬂicts of Commitment
UTDPP1101 - Outside Activity Policy: Executive Oﬃcers and Employees Involved in Procurement
Activities or Contract Management
UTDPP1102 - Outside Activity Policy for All Employees, Excluding Executive Oﬃcers and
Employees Involved in Procurement Activities or Contract Management
UTDPP1027 - Committee on Faculty Standing and Conduct
Related Policies
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1121 Academic Freedom | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1121 3/4

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDPP1121 Academic Freedom | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1121 4/4
