Home /  Index / UTDBP3105
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to including employees in the process of ensuring that
the University operates in an ethical, honest, and lawful manner. It is the policy of the University to:
1. Encourage employees to report, or cause to be reported, and to assist in any investigation by
persons authorized or responsible for such matters, known or suspected violations of laws, rules,
policies, or regulations, or improper activities (collectively referred to as "wrongdoing"); and
2. Prohibit unlawful retaliation against employees as a consequence of good faith actions in the
opposition to, reporting of, or participation in a proceeding pertaining to allegations of wrongdoing.
Inquiries regarding this policy may be directed to the Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance (“IC”) at 972-
883-2306 or compliance@utdallas.edu.
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Reason for Policy
Scope
Deﬁnitions Speciﬁc to this Policy
Responsibilities and Procedures for Reporting...
Formal Complaint Resolution Procedures for...
UTDBP3105
Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and
Protection from Retaliation
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 1/9

This policy provides information regarding the University's compliance and prevention eﬀorts related
to known or suspected wrongdoing and unlawful retaliation against an employee for reporting
alleged wrongdoing.
This policy applies to all employees of the University.
Unlawful Retaliation - any action that adversely aﬀects the employment or other institutional status of
an individual (including discharging, demoting, suspending, threatening, harassing, or in any other
manner discriminating against an employee in the terms and conditions of employment), that is taken
by the University or its employee because the individual, in good faith, opposes an unlawful practice;
makes or ﬁles a charge; ﬁles a complaint; or testiﬁes, assists, or participates in any manner in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing regarding an allegation concerning wrongdoing or of inadequate
institutional response thereto of such allegation.
Complaint - Complaint means a written document, including the required information, alleging a
violation of this policy.
Complainant - Complainant means a person who submits a complaint alleging they have experienced
a violation of this policy.
Respondent - Respondent means the person designated to respond to a complaint. Generally, the
respondent would be the person alleged to be responsible for the prohibited discrimination or
harassment alleged in a complaint. The term "Respondent" may be used to designate persons with
direct responsibility for a particular action or those persons with administrative responsibility for
procedures and policies in those areas covered in a complaint.
Appropriate Administrator - For the sections on complaint evaluation and investigation, the term
"Appropriate Administrator" means the Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost, or their
Reason for Policy
Scope
Definitions Specific to this Policy
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 2/9

designee, for complaints arising from academic areas; and the Chief Compliance Oﬃcer, or their
designee, for complaints arising from all other units of the University.
All University employees have a personal and professional obligation to report, or cause to be
reported, and to assist in any investigation by persons authorized or responsible for such matters,
the following:
1. Illegal or fraudulent activity;
2. Financial misstatements, or accounting or auditing irregularities;
3. Conﬂicts of interest, or dishonest or unethical conduct;
4. Violations of the institution's code of conduct; and
5. Violations of other laws, rules, or regulations.
Employees are expected to be truthful and cooperative in investigations of allegations of wrongdoing.
Employees shall report allegations of wrongdoing through administrative processes and procedures of
the University and the U. T. System, including, but not limited to, those established:
1. Pursuant to Business Procedures Memorandum 50 pertaining to embezzlement, misappropriation,
and other ﬁscal irregularities;
2. By speciﬁc policy, such as sexual harassment and employee grievances;
3. By the University's Compliance Program; and
4. By the UT System.
Employees are expected to be truthful and cooperative in investigations of allegations of wrongdoing
or unlawful retaliation.
Responsibilities and Procedures for Reporting Allegations
of Wrongdoing
Reporting Responsibility
Responsibility to Cooperate
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 3/9

An employee who takes any disciplinary or retaliatory action against an individual for, in good faith,
reporting, or causing to be reported, suspected wrongdoing, or for assisting in an authorized
investigation of alleged wrongdoing is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal
from the University. The prohibition against disciplinary action does not extend to disciplinary action
for self-reported violations
If an employee believes that they have been subjected to any action that violates the non-retaliation
provisions, the employee may ﬁle a complaint in accordance with the procedures outlined below.
A complaint alleging retaliation must be submitted in writing to the Assistant Vice President for
Institutional Compliance. If the complaint is against the Assistant Vice President, the complaint may
be submitted to the Vice President and Chief of Staﬀ. The complaint must contain the following
information (the "required information"):
1. Name of the complainant;
2. Contact information, including address, telephone, and e-mail address, if applicable;
3. Name of the person directly responsible for the alleged retaliation;
4. Date and place of the alleged retaliation;
5. Nature of the alleged retaliation;
6. Detailed description of the speciﬁc conduct that is alleged to constitute retaliation;
7. Copies of documents pertaining to the alleged retaliation;
8. Names of any witnesses to the alleged retaliation;
9. Corrective action requested by the complainant;
10. Complainant's signature and date of ﬁling; and
11. Any other relevant information.
Protecting Against Unlawful Retaliation
Formal Complaint Resolution Procedures for Allegations of
Unlawful Retaliation
Submission of Retaliation Complaint
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 4/9

The following communications do not constitute a retaliation complaint and will not be investigated
or resolved pursuant to this process:
1. Oral allegations;
2. Anonymous communications;
3. Courtesy copies of correspondence or a complaint ﬁled with others;
4. Inquiries that seek advice or information only; and
5. Pre-complaint consultations and informal resolution activities.
If a complaint of retaliation arises from reporting or ﬁling a complaint or participating in an
investigation or related proceeding regarding allegations of discrimination or otherwise opposing a
discriminatory practice, including sexual harassment, it will be handled according to the procedures
outlined in UTDBP3090 Nondiscrimination or UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy, respectively.
If a complaint arises from other types of wrongdoing, as deﬁned by this policy, it will be handled
according to the procedures outlined in this policy.
A written complaint must be ﬁled within 180 calendar days of the occurrence of the alleged
retaliation in order to ensure prompt and eﬃcient handling and resolution. At the discretion of the
Senior Director, the 180-day ﬁling period may be extended for good cause.
Within ﬁve (5) working days after receipt of a written retaliation complaint, IC will:
1. send the complainant a brief acknowledgment of the complaint, stating that the complaint will be
evaluated, advising the complainant that they will be contacted within a given time, and providing
them with a copy of this policy. IC will keep the complainant apprised of the status of the complaint
to the extent that IC determines that the communication does not compromise the integrity of
the investigation.
2. inform the unit head of the allegation. IC will keep the unit head apprised of the status of the
complaint to the extent that IC determines that the communication does not compromise the
integrity of the investigation. If the unit head is the subject of the investigation, IC will provide this
information instead to that individual's supervisor.
Time Limit
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 5/9

IC will initiate an investigation if the written complaint contains all the required information and is
timely, within the scope of this policy, and states suﬃcient speciﬁc facts, which, if determined to be
true, would support a ﬁnding that the non-retaliation provisions of this policy were violated.
Notwithstanding that the complaint meets the foregoing requirements, IC may determine not to
proceed with a complaint investigation for any one of the following reasons:
1. the complainant withdraws the complaint;
2. corrective action has been taken, or has been oﬀered and rejected;
3. another complaint resolution process is more appropriate; or
4. litigation or another complaint process is pending.
If IC determines not to proceed with a complaint investigation, a notiﬁcation will be sent to the
complainant stating the reason for that determination. The notiﬁcation will also include a statement
informing the complainant that they may appeal the determination not to proceed. The appeal must
be delivered to the Appropriate Administrator, or their designee, within (10 working days after the
complainant's receipt of the notiﬁcation letter. The appeal must be in writing and signed by the
complainant and must state why the decision not to proceed with an investigation of the retaliation
complaint was in error.
The Appropriate Administrator or designee will respond within 20 working days of receipt of the
appeal. If the decision to dismiss is upheld, that decision is ﬁnal. If the decision to dismiss is
overturned, the complaint is sent back to IC for investigation in accordance with the procedures
outlined below.
If it is determined that the complaint investigation will proceed, IC will provide the respondent
written notiﬁcation of the complaint investigation and a copy of this policy. The notiﬁcation will
include a statement of the allegations to be investigated. IC will keep the respondent apprised of the
status of investigation to the extent that IC determines that it will not compromise the integrity of
the investigation.
Complaint Evaluation
Notiﬁcation of Respondent
Complaint Investigation and Determination
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 6/9

The assigned investigator will interview the complainant, the respondent, and any other persons
whom the investigator determines may have pertinent factual information related to the retaliation
complaint. The investigator shall also gather and examine relevant documents. Facts will be
considered on the basis of what is reasonable to persons of ordinary sensitivity and not on the basis
of a particular sensitivity or reaction of an individual. Findings will be based on the totality of
circumstances surrounding the alleged retaliation.
During the investigation process, the complainant and the respondent will provide the investigator
with all documents relied upon regarding the issues raised in the complaint.
The investigator will provide a proposed statement of ﬁndings, copies of relevant documents, and
relevant physical evidence to the Appropriate Administrator, or their designee, within thirty (30)
working days of receipt of the respondent's response to the allegations and supporting
documentation, unless unusual circumstances require more time. The Appropriate Administrator or
designee and the investigator will meet to discuss the ﬁndings.
Within 20 working days from receipt of the proposed ﬁndings, the Appropriate Administrator or
designee shall take one of the following actions:
1. Request further investigation into the complaint;
2. Dismiss the complaint; or
3. Find that the non-retaliation provisions of this policy were violated, in which event the Appropriate
Administrator or designee, following consultation with the investigator or other knowledgeable
persons as appropriate, shall determine disciplinary or corrective actions to be taken.
The Appropriate Administrator or designee will notify in writing the complainant, respondent, and
appropriate unit head of their decision, and attach a copy of the ﬁnal statement of ﬁndings to the
notiﬁcation. IC will retain copies of the Appropriate Administrator's letter, the statement of ﬁndings,
and relevant documents in accordance with the institution's records retention schedule.
If a retaliation complaint is directed against an oﬃcial who would otherwise act on the complaint, the
function assigned to that oﬃcial in these procedures will be delegated by the Vice President and
Chief of Staﬀ, or the President, as appropriate, to another person. If it is determined through the
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 7/9

proceedings that an employee has experienced retaliation in violation of this policy, the University
shall take appropriate corrective action pursuant to applicable university policies.
This policy does not protect an employee who ﬁles a complaint or provides information that they
know to be false or who does not have a reasonable belief in the truth and accuracy of the
information. An employee determined to knowingly have made false accusations, or to have given
false information during an investigation may be subject to disciplinary action, including termination
of employment, in accordance with applicable institutional policies and procedures.
False Complaints
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 8/9

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:52 PM UTDBP3105 Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3105 9/9
