Home / Student Life / UTDSP5005
It is the policy of the university that, to the extent provided by applicable law, no person shall be
excluded from participation in, denied the beneﬁts of, or be subjected to discrimination under, any
program or activity sponsored or conducted by the university on the basis of race, age, color, national
origin, religion, sex, veteran status, or disability.
Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination. Such harassment is deﬁned as unwelcome sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
Suggestions that academic or employment reprisals or rewards will follow the refusal or granting of
sexual favors, also constitute sexual harassment.
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Subchapter A. Grievances Procedures
Subchapter B. Appeals of Academic...
UTDSP5005
Student Grievances
Policy Statement
Subchapter A. Grievances Procedures
Section 51.01: Statement of Equal Educational Opportunity
Section 51.02: Sexual Harassment

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5005 Student Grievances | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5005 1/5

A brochure describing the university's policies and procedures on sexual harassment is available in
the Oﬃce of the Dean of Students in the Student Union and at numerous distribution sites
throughout the campus. The full text of the university "Sexual Harassment Policy and Procedure" may
be found in the Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual, Section D, D11-115.0.
Any student who perceives that he or she has been subject to any form of discrimination as deﬁned
in Section 51.01 and 51.02 may ﬁle a complaint with the dean or other oﬃcial identiﬁed in the
speciﬁc policy.
The complaint must contain the nature of the alleged discrimination, including a detailed statement of
the events, including dates, places, names and phone numbers of witnesses.
The dean will refer all complaints that name an employee of the university (including graduate
assistants and other student employees) as the oﬀender to the Oﬃce of Human Resources, which will
investigate and process the complaint under the university's "Nondiscrimination Policy." When the
nature of the complaint is discrimination on the basis of disability, the dean will investigate pursuant
to D11-195.0 of the Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual.
With the exceptions noted in subsection (c) above, the student discipline procedure outlined in this
chapter will be utilized for complaints that name a student as an alleged oﬀender. Such complaints
will be investigated by the dean.
As a result of the investigation, the dean will, on the basis of the information presented, determine: 1)
that the charges of discrimination are without basis, 2) that further investigation is required, 3) that
campus action shall be initiated to alleviate a discriminatory situation, or 4) that a hearing will be held.
The appeal procedures deﬁned in this section apply to an unresolved grievance concerning some
aspect of the student's academic standing at UT Dallas. The intent is to address the grievance of the
student in a prompt and orderly fashion. A grievance means a dispute concerning some aspect of the
Section 51.03: Complaint Procedures
Subchapter B. Appeals of Academic Decisions
Section 51.06: Appeal Procedures
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5005 Student Grievances | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5005 2/5

student's academic standing arising from an administrative or faculty decision that the student
regards as incorrect or unjust. Grievances include, but are not limited to, disputes over grades,
application of degree plan, graduation/degree program requirements, and thesis and dissertation
committee and/or adviser actions or decisions. Grievances, as deﬁned in this section, do not include
the right to appeal the termination of employment of a teaching assistant or research assistant during
the term of the student's appointment. That appeal process is deﬁned and described in UT Dallas
Policy UTDPP1075 - University Policies Related to Graduate Assistants Teaching Assistants Teaching
Associates and Student Research Assistants.
A grievance regarding academic concerns will be considered in the following manner:
1. Initial Consideration of Grievance: In attempting to resolve any student grievance falling within the
scope of this policy, it is the obligation of the student ﬁrst to make a serious and prompt eﬀort to
resolve the matter through discussion with the instructor, supervisor, administrator, or committee
chair with whom the grievance originated (hereafter called "the respondent.") within sixty (60)
calendar days after the date on which the decision was ﬁrst rendered.
2. Appeal to the Department/Program Head: If the matter cannot be resolved in discussions between
the student and the respondent, the student grievant can submit a written appeal to the
respondent's department/program head with a copy to the respondent clearly specifying the basis
of the appeal and stating the remedies the student is seeking. This written appeal MUST be
submitted no later than the sixty-ﬁfth day after the date on which the decision in dispute was ﬁrst
rendered by the respondent. Within ten business days while classes are in session, the respondent
will provide both the student and the department/program head with a written response. The
department/program head will have 10 business days to review all submissions and provide a
written response to the student and respondent (an extension to this timeline may be granted by
the School Dean for good cause). In determining the validity of the grievance, the department head
should be guided by the principle that the burden is on the grievant to show that the decision is
arbitrary and capricious. If the department/program head decides that the grievance be granted,
he/she will also provide a decision on how to resolve the dispute.
3. Academic Appeals Panel: If the student is dissatisﬁed with the decision of the department/program
head, the student may submit a written appeal via email or hard copy, within ten business days of
the date the decision was sent, to the dean of the school hosting the course, comprehensive or oral
examination with a copy to the department/program head (an extension to this timeline may be
granted by the dean for good cause). The written appeal by the student to the school dean must
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5005 Student Grievances | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5005 3/5

clearly state the reasons for the appeal and remedy sought. The dean will appoint an appeals panel.
The appeals panel composition will consist of an associate dean of the school in which the
grievance originated, acting as chair, two faculty members from the school in which the grievance
originated, an associate dean from another school, and a student. The student selected to serve on
the panel will be an undergraduate when the grievance is from an undergraduate student and will
be a graduate student when the grievance is from a graduate student. The academic panel will
review all submissions, obtain additional information and opinions if desired, and provide the
student with a written response within twenty business days while classes are in session of the
receipt of the student's appeal to the school dean. The appropriate dean of graduate or
undergraduate studies will receive a copy of the panel's response. The ﬁndings and
recommendation of the appeals panel are ﬁnal.
All parties involved in an academic appeal will be informed about the ﬁnal disposition of the appeal.
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5005 Student Grievances | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5005 4/5

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:38 PM UTDSP5005 Student Grievances | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5005 5/5
