Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1062
The ideal of a research university is a university in which all those who convey knowledge are also
engaged in producing it. Further, those engaged in producing knowledge require and should have, as
a necessary condition in support of their freedom of inquiry, the protection of tenure. The faculty of
The University of Texas at Dallas has been dedicated to this concept since the University began and
this dedication does not waver. Other things being equal, as many of the faculty as practicable should
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Preamble
Standards of Evaluation
Procedures
Promotion Review Committees for Hobson...
Review of Files
Right to View Files
Opportunities
Grievance and Appeal
UTDPP1062
General Standards and Procedures for Review of
Nontenure-System Faculty
Policy Statement
Preamble

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 1/8

hold tenure-system appointments. However, in practice a substantial component of instructional
responsibilities will continue to be met with faculty who are not part of the tenure system. The term
"nontenure-system faculty" means faculty with classroom or class-laboratory responsibilities who are
hired for a ﬁxed term of service and who are not subject to the various rules and regulations
pertaining to tenure-system faculty. Nontenure-system faculty titles may include but are not limited
to the following: Senior Lecturer 1, Senior Lecturer 2, Senior Lecturer 3, Clinical Assistant Professor,
Clinical Associate Professor, Clinical Full Professor (Clinical Professor), Assistant Professor of
Instruction, Associate Professor of Instruction, Professor of Instruction, Assistant Professor of
Practice, Associate Professor of Practice, and Professor of Practice.
It is the policy of The University of Texas at Dallas that nontenure-system faculty should be treated as
true colleagues in a collective academic enterprise. Nontenure-system faculty should have the same
kinds of working conditions and expectations of fair and considerate treatment as tenure-system
faculty and should be able to work with tenure-system faculty as genuine colleagues. Accordingly, the
purpose of this policy is to require the establishment of processes for nontenure-system faculty hiring
and evaluation. This policy is to be implemented in the schools and Hobson Wildenthal Honors
College (HWHC) as the responsibility of the School Deans and Faculty and the HWHC Dean.
Promotion recommendations regarding nontenure-system faculty are not to be reviewed by the
Committee on Qualiﬁcations of Academic Personnel. The Academic Senate will exercise general
oversight with respect to the academic policy referenced herein. The Chief Academic Oﬃcer
will exercise general oversight with respect to letters of appointment and compliance with Rules
and Regulations.
1. Peer-Reviewed Research and Academic Achievement: Except for Research Professors, peer-
reviewed research and academic achievement are not required of nontenure-system faculty as part
of their normal assigned responsibilities at U. T. Dallas. However, nontenure-system faculty have
the same standing to seek funding for, and to pursue, funded research as other faculty. If peer-
reviewed research and academic achievements, such as maintaining an academic qualiﬁcation
required by accreditation boards, are required as a condition of employment, this requirement must
be speciﬁed in writing and should be included in the evaluation. When not required, they may still
be noted in peer reviews. Evidence of research and academic achievements can include publication
in peer-reviewed journals; monographs which contribute to advancing knowledge or its utilization
Standards of Evaluation
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 2/8

in the resolution of societal problems; development of widely adopted clinical or educational
techniques which advance the quality of life; presentations at professional gatherings;
literary publications, performances, and visual and other artistic contributions in regional and
national exhibitions.
2. Teaching: It is important that evaluating committees seek a variety of ways to evaluate an
individual's teaching. Teaching eﬀectiveness is not to be measured solely in terms of teaching in
organized courses. It also includes the ability and willingness to develop new courses and to teach a
wide variety of courses. Evaluating committees should consider the importance of such courses to
the instructional programs, and the development of innovative teaching methods. Teaching also
extends to curriculum development and student advisement.
3. University Service and Citizenship: University citizenship is that amorphous blend of willingness to
participate actively as citizens in the life of the University and as collegial representatives of the
University in extramural settings. Service, in contrast to administration, includes membership in
governance bodies and committees, program planning and development, public service, and special
assignments from Deans or the University Administration.
4. Administration: Nontenure-system faculty may be assigned duties that require academic
knowledge and experience, but are also heavily administrative, such as Associate Deans for
Undergraduate Education, graduate student advisor, and graduate clinical instructor or coordinator.
Aspects of this type of activity that indicate good or poor performance include overall work-load or
case-load, the overall levels of satisfaction and good order in the program, letters or other
expressions of satisfaction or dissatisfaction from students, colleagues, or immediate supervisors,
and the development of innovative methods or program designs.
1. Inclusion in bylaws: Procedures for hiring and peer review of nontenure-system faculty should be
incorporated in the bylaws of the School and the administrative procedures of the HWHC.
2. Rank and recognition of employment history: Nontenure-system faculty titles should be given in
accordance with Regents' Rules and Regulations Rule 31001, Part 2, Section 2.2. Criteria for these
diﬀerentiations might include relevant degrees, teaching experience, work experience, research
experience, and creative contributions. A change in title for a nontenure-system faculty member
whose contract is being renewed should be based on a record of excellence relevant to their
assignments or reﬂect distinguished attainments relevant to their assignments.
Procedures
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 3/8

3. Hiring: For hiring nontenure-system faculty, each School or Department and the HWHC should
institute a committee or designate an already existent committee as a search committee. Whenever
possible, at least one nontenure-system faculty member at the highest rank should be included on
the search committee. The search committee will recommend a candidate and an initial hiring rank
to the Dean and/or Program Head. Whenever possible, program faculty will be given the
opportunity to comment on this recommendation prior to any formal job oﬀer.
4. Teaching Evaluation: Each School and the HWHC should establish or designate a committee to
review and provide advice on the teaching performance of nontenure-system faculty. For the
schools, this evaluation may be assigned to the School Committee on Eﬀective Teaching. For this
purpose, the committee should include an appropriate number of nontenure-system faculty
members, depending on their number in the School. A School Committee on Eﬀective Teaching is
mandated by UTDPP1006.
5. Orientation programs and advice: Each School or Department and the HWHC with nontenure-
system faculty should develop orientation programs and materials for them and assure that there
are procedures and processes to provide ongoing advice. This program should involve both more
experienced nontenure-system faculty and tenure-system faculty. If there is a mentoring program,
nontenure-system faculty should be included as appropriate given their work assignments and
numbers in the School or College. The Schools or Department should clearly designate a faculty
member or faculty body to consult with each nontenure-system faculty member in regard to his or
her academic responsibilities. Nontenure-system faculty should also consult regularly with the
HWHC Dean and School Deans and Associate Deans.
6. Periodic Review: All faculty at U. T. Dallas are subject to an annual administrative review. For
annual administrative reviews, nontenure-system faculty will submit annual review documents in
the same manner and at the same times as tenure-system faculty.
7. Contract Term and Renewal: Under Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule Number 31001, the longest
appointment available to nontenure-system faculty is three academic years (which may be
renewable in accordance with Texas Education Code Section 51.943). Initial appointments are for
one academic year but can be as long as three academic years in situations deemed appropriate by
the Dean and Provost. If a position is expected to be short term, it should be clearly identiﬁed as a
visiting or a lecturer position. One year contracts and all initial contracts are deemed to be
probationary. Subsequent contracts shall be oﬀered on or before May 15, if possible. At the
discretion of the Dean and the Provost, subsequent contracts may be oﬀered for one, two, or three
academic years. Two year annually renewable contracts should typically be awarded to faculty at
the level of Senior Lecturer 2 and 3, Clinical Associate Professor, Clinical Professor, Associate
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 4/8

Professor of Instruction, Professor of Instruction, Associate Professor of Practice, or Professor of
Practice if they have completed their probationary period with evaluations indicating that they
meet expectations. Two year annually renewable contracts should also typically be awarded to
faculty at the level of Senior Lecturer 1, Clinical Assistant Professor, Assistant Professor of
Instruction, and Assistant Professor of Practice if they have completed three years of service with
evaluations indicating that they meet expectations. Three year annually renewable contracts should
typically be awarded to faculty whose work clearly exceeds expectations. Notwithstanding these
guidelines, per Regents' Rules there can be no expectation of employment beyond the current
appointment period.
8. Promotion Process: Each School or Department with nontenure-system faculty should develop a
process for review of nontenure-system faculty involving tenure-system faculty and above-rank
nontenure-system faculty as appropriate in the School or Department. The HWHC will not have
tenure-system faculty and will utilize the committee process outlined below for faculty with an
appointment in the College which includes input by other non-tenure system faculty. These
reviews should strive for an even consideration of strengths and weaknesses and should attempt to
commend performance that is already outstanding as well as give constructive advice where
performance can be improved. The weighting of the standards of evaluation should reﬂect the
employment contract. The interpretation of the standards of evaluation should reﬂect the
interpretations of the School or Department bylaws or the HWHC’s administrative procedures. The
reviews may result in recommendations of non-renewal, renewal in rank, renewal at a higher rank,
renewal with recognition of excellence or distinction, or changes in assignment. Two of the more
common promotional lines for nontenure-system faculty are Senior Lecturer 1, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Assistant Professor of Instruction, or Assistant Professor of Practice to Senior Lecturer 2,
Clinical Associate Professor, Associate Professor of Instruction, or Associate Professor of Practice
to Senior Lecturer 3, Clinical Professor, Professor of Instruction, or Professor of Practice.
9. Deadline: All reviews should be complete by March 30 each year.
The review process for nontenure-system faculty members with appointments in the HWHC will be
conducted by committees formed by the HWHC Dean that will include a combination of HWHC
faculty and faculty from the discipline aligned with the candidate’s teaching as speciﬁed below.
Promotion Review Committees for Hobson Wildenthal Honors
College Instructional Faculty
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 5/8

For nontenure-system faculty considered for promotion from Assistant to Associate Professor of
Instruction, the committee will consist of two nontenure-system faculty in the HWHC of higher
academic rank, and two faculty, either tenured or nontenured, but of at least the Associate or
equivalent rank from a discipline aligned with the candidate’s teaching.
For nontenure-system faculty considered for promotion from Associate to Professor of Instruction,
the committee will consist of two nontenure-system faculty in the HWHC of higher rank, and two
faculty, either tenured or nontenure, but of at least the Full Professor or equivalent rank from a
discipline aligned with the candidate’s teaching. If there are insuﬃcient numbers within HWHC to
serve on the committee, the HWHC Dean will appoint equivalent members outside of the HWHC
preferably from the Center for Teaching and Learning.
A nontenure-system faculty member who will be reviewed by a faculty body under this policy is
responsible for preparing the ﬁle that will constitute the essential basis for this review. The Review
File as submitted by the nontenure-system faculty member to the HWHC Dean, School Dean,
Department Chair, or Program Head will include a complete professional curriculum vitae from the
nontenure-system faculty member which covers the areas of assigned responsibility and any
additional areas the candidate wishes to have considered. For teaching evaluation, information
should include statistical summaries of the teaching evaluation form for each course taught during
the previous six regular, long semesters (including transcripts of or original comments by students) as
well as information on course content and process, such as copies of syllabi and exams. Upon receipt
of the basic Review File from the nontenure-system faculty member, the Oﬃce of the Dean will
inventory the contents and insert a copy of the inventory in the ﬁle. The designated reviewing
committee has the authority and responsibility to add material to the basic Review File, these
additions being clearly identiﬁed components of the Review File. Possible additions will include items
such as the letters from external and internal evaluators for the committee's review of teaching
performance, and the committee's recommendations. All these additions will be entered on the ﬁle
inventory sheet.
Review of Files
Right to View Files
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 6/8

If a nontenure-system faculty member under review requests to see his or her ﬁle during the review
process, the Dean, Department Chair, or Program Head shall make the ﬁle available within three
working days.
Nothing in this policy, the HWHC administrative procedures, or in the bylaws of a School or
Department should be construed as precluding nontenure-system faculty members from applying
and being considered for tenure-system positions in the manner established for those positions.
Faculty grievance procedures which apply to tenure-system and nontenure-system faculty are
speciﬁed at https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1050.
Procedures for appeal of a decision on reappointment or promotion to a nontenure-system position
are in Rule 30602 of the Regents' Rules and Regulations at https://www.utsystem.edu/board-of-
regents/rules/30602-employee-grievance.
Opportunities
Grievance and Appeal
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 7/8

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1062 General Standards and Procedures for Review of Nontenure-System Faculty | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University o…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1062 8/8
