We are aware of an issue with the Firefox browser where the browser
constantly refreshes after you click on the Former Student
Reactivation form link. If you experience this issue, please try
another browser such as Chrome or Edge. You may also try right
clicking on the link and copy/pasting it into the browser address
window instead. 
UT Dallas > Ofﬁce of the Registrar > Transcripts > Ofﬁcial Transcript
Official Transcript
Ofﬁcial Paper Transcripts will be printed and mailed at least once per week either on Monday
or Thursday.
Ofﬁcial Electronic Transcripts will be available for order and will continue to process as
normal.
For customer service regarding transcripts, please email at transcripts@utdallas.edu.
Current Students – Login to Orion (need an
Active NetID)
Students who have access to Orion may place an order for an ofﬁcial transcript using the UTD
Student Center. Once logged in to Orion, choose the My Academics tile, choose the “Order
Ofﬁcial Transcript” link.
Login to Orion via the Galaxy webpage.
Former Students, Alumni and Former
Employees
To order an ofﬁcial transcript, an active NetID/Orion account is necessary.
If you do not have an active NetID:
Office of the Registrar
10/6/26, 5:54 PM Ofﬁcial Transcript - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/transcripts/ofﬁcial-transcript/ 1/3

1. Please complete the Former Student Reactivation form.
The email address you provide on the reactivation form will be added to your UTD
account as the preferred email unless you have an active UTDallas.edu email
address. The preferred email address will be used to create your Parchment
account.
If you need help verifying your information or are receiving errors on submitting the
form, please contact Transcripts@utdallas.edu.  
2. Monday through Saturday within 24 hours of submission, you should receive an email
from NetIDService@utdallas.edu containing instructions on how to reset your NetID
password, unless your account is already active. Processing on Sundays may be
intermittent due to normal system maintenance on those days.
3. If you encounter issues resetting your NetID password, contact the OIT Service Desk. 
4. Once your NetID is active and you have set your password, click Orion via the Galaxy
webpage and sign in. 
5. Once logged in to Orion, choose the My Academics tile, choose the “Order Ofﬁcial
Transcript” link. 
If you have an active NetID:
If you have an active NetID, you do not need to ﬁll out this form.  
A simple check to see if your NetID account is active – were you enrolled in the past 2
terms, OR are you enrolled in a future term? If the answer is yes to either question, then
you will not need to ﬁll out the Former Student Reactivation form.  
Please note that the form is not for resetting your password. If you need to reset your
password, visit netid.utdallas.edu.  
If you have a NetID and are not sure if it’s active, contact the OIT Service Desk. 
Former employees or current employees that no longer have the UTD Student Center in Orion
may reactivate their student role by ﬁlling out the Former Student Reactivation form. 
Ordering an Ofﬁcial Transcript
Creating a UT Dallas Transcript Account for Current Students
Creating a UT Dallas Transcript Account for Alumni and Former Students
Instructions: Check order status or update account information
eTranscript
Processing Fee: $10
Your ofﬁcial transcript will be delivered to any valid email address via secure certiﬁed PDF, or
electronically (EDI) to Texas public colleges and universities that are members of the SPEEDE
10/6/26, 5:54 PM Ofﬁcial Transcript - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/transcripts/ofﬁcial-transcript/ 2/3

network. Attachments are accepted for most electronic transcripts according to delivery method. EDI
transcripts do not allow attachments to be sent. Current EDI partners include: Austin Community
College, Blinn College, Texas State University San Marcos, Stephen F. Austin, Texas Tech, UT
Arlington, UT Austin, Tarrant County Community College, Palo Alto College, Collin College, University
of North Texas, Texas Tech Health Science Center and Galveston College.
If you have required attachments to be included with your ofﬁcial transcript, please make sure to
attach your document to the eTranscript order at the time of your request.
Orders for PDF are processed by an automated system, generally within 1 hour after you receive your
order conﬁrmation email. EDI orders are processed daily Monday through Friday. During periods of
high volume, it may take longer to process your transcript order.
eTranscript attachments:
All documents must be completed prior to attaching to the transcript order.
Attached documents will not be processed. They will simply be attached to the ofﬁcial
electronic transcript.
Related Pages
Privacy Policy
Login to Intranet
© The University of Texas at Dallas
Office of the Registrar
800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact Us
10/6/26, 5:54 PM Ofﬁcial Transcript - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/transcripts/ofﬁcial-transcript/ 3/3
