Home / General Adminis / UTDPP1056
The University of Texas at Dallas Handbook of Operating Procedures (HOP) contains oﬃcial policies
and procedures for the governance of UT Dallas. The rules and regulations constituting the HOP
must not conﬂict with any rule or regulation in the Regents' Rules and Regulations. Any HOP rule or
regulation that is in conﬂict with any rule or regulation in the Regents' Rules and Regulations is null and
void and has no eﬀect. The President of The University of Texas at Dallas has the authority and
responsibility to develop and administer the rules and regulations constituting the HOP. The
President has designated the Policy Coordinator as the university oﬃcial responsible for coordination
of policy development and review. The development and review process will include an opportunity
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Policy
Scope
Purpose
Deﬁnitions
Procedure
Authority/Related Policies
UTDPP1056
Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP
Amendment Approval Process
Policy Statement
Policy

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 1/6

for faculty, staﬀ, and student governance bodies to provide advisory input regarding proposed
changes to policies that may impact the respective groups.
This policy applies to any signiﬁcant change to the institution's HOP, including the addition or
deletion of policies and procedures.
The purpose of this policy is to set forth the procedure for amending the institution's HOP including
obtaining input from faculty, staﬀ, and student governance bodies that may be aﬀected by changes in
policies and procedures.
1. Educational Policy: Sections of the HOP that pertain to the areas of faculty responsibility as set
forth in Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 40101.
2. Governance of the institution: Consists of the policies and procedures except medical procedures
or protocols, aﬀecting the way the institution directs, administers or controls the institution. This
includes policies and procedures:
a. directing compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, Regents' Rules and
Regulations, and UT System policies and policies with System-wide application;
b. addressing or aﬀecting the responsibility and/or authority of the various oﬃces and bodies that
make up the institution; and
c. addressing the relationships between administration, faculty, students, and staﬀ and institutional
values and/or goals.
3. HOP Committee: The Committee appointed by the President to review and make
recommendations regarding the HOP to the President. The HOP committee membership includes
the following individuals or their respective designees: the President, the Vice Presidents, the
Academic Senate Speaker, Staﬀ Council President, Student Government President, Graduate
Student Assembly President, the Policy Coordinator, and other individuals as appointed by
the President.
Scope
Purpose
Definitions
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 2/6

4. Policy Coordinator: Person or oﬃce appointed by the institution's President to ensure institutional
compliance with this policy.
5. Responsible Executive: The President, or his or her designee, or Vice President, or his or her
designee, who is responsible for the programmatic, functional or administrative areas addressed by
the policy and procedure.
6. Signiﬁcant change: A change that results in a substantive change in the rule including changes to
essential principle(s), scope or application of the HOP policy or procedure. Editorial changes,
changes to reﬂect institutional organizational changes, paragraph and outline numbering, and
reference citations are not signiﬁcant changes.
7. Stakeholder Review Plan: A plan for obtaining advisory input from faculty, staﬀ, and student
governance bodies that may be aﬀected by changes in HOP policies and procedures.
1. Designations and Responsibilities: The Policy Coordinator will chair the HOP Committee. The HOP
Committee will review all HOP sections and, for each section, is responsible for: (i) designating a
Responsible Executive; (ii) determining a periodic review schedule; (iii) designating, with the
concurrence of the Faculty Senate, whether it pertains to the areas of faculty responsibility in
educational policy formulation; and (iv) developing a Stakeholder Review Plan.
2. HOP Review Process
a. Policies Not Related to Educational Matters
1. A university oﬃce proposing a new HOP section will draft the policy, in correct HOP format,
and prepare a statement of background and rationale for the new policy. (The Policy
Coordinator will provide assistance upon request). A university oﬃce proposing a HOP
amendment will prepare a draft in congressional style along with a statement of background
and rationale for the amendment. The proposing oﬃce will route the documents through the
appropriate Responsible Executive(s) or their designees.
2. The Responsible Executive will submit the proposal to the Policy Coordinator who will
distribute it to the HOP Committee. The HOP committee will conﬁrm the appropriate
Stakeholder Review Plan. The Stakeholder Review Plans for policies not related to educational
matters requires review by all stakeholders within 30 calendar days.
3. The Policy Coordinator will distribute the proposed HOP policy in accordance with the
Stakeholder Review Plans and timelines.
Procedure
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 3/6

4. Advisory input from Stakeholders returned timely to the Policy Coordinator will be provided to
the Responsible Executive for consideration.
5. The Responsible Executive will resubmit the proposed HOP policy with any incorporated
changes to the HOP Committee.
6. Once a majority of the HOP committee has approved the proposed HOP policy, it will be
submitted to the President for review and approval.
b. Educational Policy
1. New or amended Educational Policies will be reviewed in accordance with Procedure Section
2.a 1-5.
2. The Stakeholder Review Plan for Academic Aﬀairs requires review by the Faculty Senate within
60 calendar days.
c. HOP Policies with No Signiﬁcant Changes: Proposed changes to HOP sections that are not
signiﬁcant do not need to be approved in accordance with this policy or reviewed by the
Executive Vice Chancellor or Vice Chancellor and General Counsel. The Policy Coordinator shall
determine whether the change is signiﬁcant.
3. Each policy in the HOP will be reviewed in accordance with the review schedule and timelines
using the applicable process in Procedure Section 2.
4. After approval by the HOP Committee, the Policy Coordinator will submit the proposed HOP policy
to the Oﬃce of Legal Aﬀairs and the President for review and approval. The submission should
include any changes shown in congressional style and a brief background and rationale for the
proposed policy.
5. The Policy Coordinator will notify the HOP Committee and Responsible Executive regarding the
resolution of any comments received from the Oﬃce of Legal Aﬀairs and the President and make
conforming changes as needed. Recommendations and comments from university attorneys are
legal advice provided to university administration and are to be treated as privileged and
conﬁdential attorney-client communications.
6. The Policy Coordinator will notify the university community regarding approved HOP amendments
by placing them in the HOP.
Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 20201
Authority/Related Policies
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 4/6

Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 10100
Regents' Rules and Regulations, Rule 40101
Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 5/6

A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1056 Handbook of Operating Procedures HOP Amendment Approval Process | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Tex…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1056 6/6
