UT Dallas > Ofﬁce of the Registrar > Registration Procedures > Dropping a Class
Dropping a Class
Students should not assume that they will be automatically dropped from their courses for non-
payment. Students are solely responsible for ensuring that they have successfully dropped their
courses in order to avoid additional fees and charges to their account and to avoid receiving a grade
of ‘F’ for nonattendance.
To drop a course(s) after Census Day is considered a withdrawal.
Undergraduate Students
If you are receiving ﬁnancial aid or are an international student, please be sure to contact your
ﬁnancial aid or international student advisor BEFORE dropping.
All new students, freshmen, students with undeclared majors and students who have holds must
have their advisor’s approval before changing their schedule or completely withdrawing.
Options on how to submit the request:
Before Census Day (Academic Calendar) AND if you do not have holds, you can drop your
course(s):
Preferred method – Online. Guide for Dropping Classes
For students with holds send request by email from your UT Dallas account to your
academic advisor.
Note – Your schedule change request must include:
Your name
The course(s) you are adjusting (adding, dropping or withdrawing)
The last four digits of your student ID
Your signature (by email from your UT Dallas account to your academic advisor)
After Census Day through the last day for Withdraw (please see Academic Calendar):
**New Online Process for Undergraduate Students** Online Drop/Withdrawal Process
for Undergraduate Students
Office of the Registrar
9/29/26, 7:41 PM Dropping a Class - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/dropping-a-class/ 1/3

Email requests from your UT Dallas email address will be honored as your signature/consent.
Requests made by email are subject to the published deadline dates listed in the academic calendar.
You are responsible for all changes to your schedule. Please follow up on your request by logging into
Orion and verifying the changes have been made.
Limitations on Course Withdrawals for Undergraduate
Students (Texas 6-Withdrawals Rule)
As enacted by the State of Texas Legislature, undergraduate students will not be permitted to
withdraw from more than six courses, including any course from which a transfer student has
withdrawn at another institution of higher education in Texas. This rule is effective beginning with
ﬁrst-time freshmen in Fall 2007 and applies when a student
Withdrew from the course without receiving a grade or incurring an academic penalty,
Transcript indicates or will indicate that the student was enrolled in the course and
Is not withdrawing from the course in order to withdraw from the institution.
Non-academic withdrawals are exempt from counting toward the six drop rule.
Graduate Students
If you are receiving ﬁnancial aid or are an international student, please be sure to contact your
ﬁnancial aid or international student advisor BEFORE dropping.
Options on how to submit the request:
Before Census Day (Academic Calendar), you can drop your course(s)
Online. Guide for Dropping Classes
By email from your UT Dallas account to records@utdallas.edu. Your schedule change
request must include:
Your name
The course(s) you are adjusting (adding, dropping or withdrawing)
The last four digits of your student ID
Your signature.
After Census Day through the last day for Withdraw (W),
Email the academic advisor from your UT Dallas email account with course to withdraw.
Or ﬁll out the Registration form (pdf) and submit to academic advisor.
9/29/26, 7:41 PM Dropping a Class - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/dropping-a-class/ 2/3

Email requests from your UT Dallas email address will be honored as your signature/consent.
Requests made by email are subject to the published deadline dates listed in the academic calendar.
You are responsible for all changes to your schedule. Please follow up on your request by logging into
Orion and verifying the changes have been made.
Refunds
Please visit the Bursar’s Ofﬁce website for information regarding refunds for dropped classes.
Related Pages
Privacy Policy
Login to Intranet
© The University of Texas at Dallas
Office of the Registrar
800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact Us
9/29/26, 7:41 PM Dropping a Class - UTD Registrar
https://registrar.utdallas.edu/registration/dropping-a-class/ 3/3
