THE UNIVERSITY OF TE XAS AT DALLAS  
OFFICE OF THE PROVOS T 
800 West Campbell Road, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021  (972) 883-2271  Fax (972) 883-2276 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION UNIVERSITY 
July 1, 2020 
 
Dear Colleagues, 
 
I write to share with you the fall 2020 academic calendar and the framework for scheduling fall 2020 
classes.  These two key aspects of the fall semester were informed by the responses to the faculty and 
student surveys that were administered in June.   
 
Fall 2020 Academic Calendar 
Classes will begin on Monday, August 17, 2020 as originally scheduled.  The last day of classes will be 
Wednesday, November 25, the day before Thanksgiving.  Reading days will be scheduled on November 30 
and December 1, followed by take home or online final exams beginning December 2 and ending 
December 8.  The goal of this adjusted calendar is to prevent the potential spread of COVID-19 through 
students leaving campus for an extended period of time at Thanksgiving and then returning to campus 
afterward. 
 
Framework for UT Dallas Fall 2020 Course Schedule 
The details of the framework are provided in the document attached to this message.  The framework for 
scheduling fall 2020 courses is designed to deliver UT Dallas’s educational mission, provide maximum 
flexibility for faculty teaching and student learning preferences, follow Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) considerations for Institutes of Higher Education to slow the spread of COVID-19, and 
enable the campus to transition completely to remote learning with short notice. 
 
This week, University Registrar Jennifer McDowell will send a spreadsheet to unit leaders in charge of 
scheduling in the Schools to gather information that will inform revisions to the fall 2020 course schedule.  
Specifically, instructors of record will be asked to choose their top two preferred modalities from among 
five options for each course they are scheduled to teach.  Three of the modalities include face-to-face 
instruction in the classroom, and two of the modalities require that instruction be exclusively delivered 
remotely.  An important aspect of the framework is that all courses, regardless of modality, will have 
asynchronous (i.e., not in real time) access so that students who cannot or choose not to return to campus 
can take their courses online. 
 
Thank you for your prompt attention to this request as we work to finalize the fall schedule. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Inga Musselman 
Provost 
 
Attachment: UT Dallas Fall 2020 Framework

June 28, 2020  Inga H. Musselman 
Framework for UT Dallas Fall 2020 Course Schedule 
 
 
Introduction 
The framework for fall 2020 courses is designed to: 
• deliver UT Dallas’s educational mission; 
• provide maximum flexibility for faculty teaching and student learning preferences; 
• follow Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considerations for Institutes of 
Higher Education to slow the spread of COVID-19; and 
• enable the campus to transition completely to remote learning with short notice. 
 
Fall 2020 Academic Calendar 
• Classes begin Monday, August 17, 2020. 
• Faculty should not give exams the week of November 23, 2020. 
• The last day of classes is Wednesday, November 25, 2020. 
• Reading days are November 30 and December 1. 
• Take home and online final exams will be scheduled from December 2 to 8, 2020.     
 
Expectations in Classrooms and Instructional Laboratories 
All occupants of rooms used for classroom and laboratory instruction must wear face coverings 
and maintain 6-foot social distancing at all times. Other university requirements may be found 
at the Academic Continuity page of the UT Dallas COVID-19 web page. 
 
Faculty Teaching Preference (statement endorsed by Academic Senate, June 17, 2020) 
“The mode of instruction for individual classes will be determined per consultations between 
the class instructor and appropriate administrators at the program and school levels, 
considering pedagogical concerns, student enrollment, space requirements and classroom 
configurations, space availability, and instructor needs and preferences. Instructors at every 
rank and status will have the option to teach in a fully online/remote fashion without UT Dallas 
administration requiring that the instructor disclose personal details that might include health, 
caregiving responsibilities, or childcare needs. As already announced by the University, all 
classes must include an option for students to take the class remotely and to do so 
asynchronously. Retaliation against a faculty member on the basis of their teaching preference 
is prohibited.” 
 
Academic Advising and Notification to Students 
• Students will register for courses according to the published fall 2020 course schedule. 
• The course schedule will be updated to list the modality of each course section. 
• The Registrar will notify each student by email in July of any changes in modality of their 
scheduled courses. 
• Students may elect to make changes once the course schedule is updated. For Flexible 
Mode (i.e., HyFlex) courses, students will be required to select their day of attendance.

June 28, 2020  Inga H. Musselman 
Faculty Choice of Teaching Modality 
Five course modalities and their definitions are provided below.  Faculty will choose their 
preferred modality, among these options, for each course they are teaching.  In the first three 
modalities (i.e., 1, 2, 3), the instructor is in the classroom to deliver face-to-face instruction.  In 
the last two modalities (i.e., 4, 5), the instructor delivers the instruction remotely. 
 
Student Choice of Classes 
Students will choose among courses available in the following modalities, and may elect to have 
their course load include more than one modality. 
 
Course Modalities 
1. Traditional Classroom/Laboratory Course (i.e., face-to-face) – The instructor and 
students are present in the classroom/laboratory each class meeting according to the 
class schedule.  The availability of courses in this modality will be limited due to 
classroom availability. 
2. Blended (Hybrid) Classroom Course – Online activity is mixed with face-to-face 
meetings in the classrooms. The instructor and students meet all together face-to-face 
one or two days per week. The face-to-face meetings are accompanied by online 
instruction. 
3. Flexible Mode Course (i.e., HyFlex blended learning) – Online activity is mixed with 
classroom face-to-face meetings. UT Dallas is implementing a student group rotation 
model, wherein faculty deliver instruction face-to-face in the classroom during each 
class meeting, and students attend class face-to-face one day per week.  Students will 
attend class online with synchronous (i.e., in real time) transmission when they are not 
in the classroom face-to-face. 
4. Remote/Virtual Course – Instruction is delivered online in real time according to the day 
and time in the class schedule (i.e., synchronously). The instructor delivers the 
instruction from home or the office.  Students complete the course at a distance.   
[Note: These courses are traditional classroom courses that faculty are offering virtually 
in fall 2020.] 
5. Fully Online Course – These courses are designed with the truly distant student in mind. 
Students complete the course at a distance.  
 
Asynchronous Access 
• All courses, regardless of modality, will have asynchronous (i.e., not in real time) access 
so that students who cannot or choose not to return to campus can take their courses 
online. 
• Syllabi, course assignments, class recordings, etc. will be posted in eLearning so that 
they can be accessed by students outside of scheduled class time.  Syllabi must also be 
posted in CourseBook in compliance with state law. 
• By incorporating asynchronous access into every course, faculty and students will be 
prepared to transition off campus if required by COVID-19.

June 28, 2020  Inga H. Musselman 
Synchronous Access 
• Microsoft Teams and Microsoft Stream, in combination with web cameras, will be used 
in classroom instruction to allow students to attend class sessions synchronously and 
remotely.  Classes will be recorded for asynchronous access and in compliance with ADA 
regulations. 
 
Guidelines for Scheduling Courses  
• All courses, regardless of modality, will have asynchronous (i.e., not in real time) access 
so that students who cannot or choose not to return to campus can take their courses 
online. 
 
• Classroom scheduling will be prioritized for courses.  Although most university meetings 
will continue to take place using Microsoft Teams, they may be scheduled in available 
classrooms after the first day of classes, August 17, 2020. 
 
• Deans and unit heads will consult their faculty to learn their preferred teaching modality 
(modalities) and report this information to the Registrar. 
 
• Consideration will be given to the Schools’ priorities for courses offered in the various 
modalities and, in consultation with Educational Technology Services, to priorities for 
the development of new Fully Online Courses. 
o It may be desirable to prioritize instructional laboratory spaces for courses that 
have smaller enrollments and/or that provide capstone experiences. 
 
• When updating the fall 2020 course schedule, the Registrar will take into consideration 
student enrollment, space requirements, classroom and instructional laboratory 
configurations, space availability, and instructor needs and preferences. 
 
• The Registrar will notify each student by email of any changes in modality of their 
scheduled courses. 
 
• Course sections with more than 120 enrolled students will be scheduled in the 
Remote/Virtual Course or Fully Online Course modality. Instructors may consider 
adding small face-to-face or remote/virtual breakout sessions. 
 
Note: The maximum occupancies of UT Dallas’s 100-seat and larger classrooms, based on 6-foot 
social distancing, are such that they cannot be used for course modalities that incorporate face-
to-face instruction, e.g., Traditional Classroom Course, Blended (Hybrid) Classroom Course, or 
Flexible Mode Course.  The occupancies of some spaces not currently used for instruction are 
being determined to see if they can accommodate a limited number of larger enrollment 
courses, e.g., ATC Lecture Hall, Davidson Auditorium, Davidson Gundy Alumni Center Ball 
Rooms, Galaxy Rooms, JSOM Executive Dining Room, Testing Center, TI Auditorium, etc.

June 28, 2020  Inga H. Musselman 
Guidelines for Undergraduate Research 
• The participation of undergraduate students in laboratory research will follow the 
guidelines on the Research Continuity page of the UT Dallas COVID-19 web page.  
Beginning on May 26, research faculty, staff and graduate students resumed limited, up 
to 25%, on-site research activity throughout the University. 
 
• When undergraduate students are authorized to return to the research laboratory, 
priority will be given to students in their final year at UT Dallas who need to complete 
the research requirement of their academic program.
