Home /  Index / UTDSP5010
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. §1232g and 34 CFR Part 99 are
federal law and regulations that provide students with the following rights with respect to their
education records:
to inspect and review the student's education records;
to consent to disclosure of the student's education records to third parties, except to the extent
that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent;
to request amendment of the student's education records to ensure that they are not inaccurate or
misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy rights under FERPA;
to be notiﬁed of the student's privacy rights under FERPA; and
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Deﬁnitions
Procedures
Appendices
Appendix A
Appendix B
Forms and Tools
Related Statutes, Policies, Requirements or...
UTDSP5010
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 1/12

to ﬁle a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the
University to comply with the requirements of FERPA.
It is the policy of The University of Texas at Dallas ("University") to protect the privacy and records
access rights that apply to records maintained by or for the University about its current and former
students of its institutions by complying with FERPA at all times.
Annual Notice - The notices that the University shall provide to each Student in attendance at the
University at least annually of their rights pursuant to FERPA and the procedures for exercising their
rights; information about the Directory Information Exception and the process by which a Student
may elect to opt out of the release of the Student's Directory Information under that exception. A link
to the Annual Notice is attached as an Appendix A to this policy.
Consent - written or electronic consent, signed by the Student or otherwise veriﬁed by the Student if
electronic, that is dated and speciﬁes the speciﬁc records to be disclosed, the party to whom the
records are to be disclosed, and the purpose of the disclosure.
De-identiﬁed Record - an Education Record that has been stripped of all identiﬁers and/or
aggregated such that it is not possible to re-identify an individual who is the subject of the record. An
Education Record that has been de-identiﬁed is no longer an Education Record and is not subject to
this policy or FERPA.
Directory Information - information in a Student's Education Record that would not generally be
considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. The following information about a Student
has been designated by University as Directory Information:
name
local and permanent postal addresses
email address
telephone number
place of birth
Definitions
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 2/12

ﬁeld of study
dates of attendance
enrollment status
student classiﬁcation (example: freshman, ﬁrst year law school student)
degrees awarded
certiﬁcates and awards (including scholarships) received
photographs
participation in oﬃcially recognized activities and sports
weight and height of members of athletic teams; and
most recent previous educational agency or institution attended.
Education Records - records directly related to a Student that are maintained by or on behalf of the
University. Education records do not include:
Records of instructional, administrative, and educational personnel that are: in the sole
possession of the maker (i.e. ﬁle notes of conversations); used only as a personal memory aid;
not intended to be accessible or revealed to any individual except, in the case of an instructor, a
temporary substitute;
Law enforcement records of the University campus police that are created and maintained by
campus police for a law enforcement purpose, including security camera footage and access control
to facilities
Medical records and mental health records, including counseling records created, maintained, and
used only in connection with provision of medical treatment or mental health treatment or
counseling to the student, that are not disclosed to anyone other than the treatment facility.
Employment records unrelated to the student's status as a student; or
Alumni records.
Personally Identiﬁable Information - Information obtained from or contained in an Education Record
that may be alone, or in combination with other information known to or available to the requestor,
or that would permit the requestor or a member of the University community with reasonable
knowledge, to identify a Student or another Student. Unless the context of this policy indicated
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 3/12

otherwise, a reference to Education Records includes Personally Identiﬁable Information contained in
or obtained from an Education Record.
Student - an individual, regardless of age, who is or who has been in attendance at University. It does
not include persons who have been admitted but did not attend University. For the purposes of this
policy "Attendance" includes attendance in person, or by correspondence or on- line or distance
learning and the period during which a person is working in a position that requires student status,
such as a under a work-study program position.
University Oﬃcial with a Legitimate Educational Interest - any person employed by the University in
an administrative, supervisory, academic, or support staﬀ position, including law enforcement unit
and health staﬀ; a person or company with whom the University has a contract or aﬃliation (such as
a UT System attorney or auditor, or a clinical facility where a student is participating in an internship);
the University of Texas System Board of Regents; a person employed by System Administration; or a
person assisting another University Oﬃcial in performing his or her tasks (such as a volunteer or
committee member), if that person or contractor requires access to an Education Record in order to
fulﬁll his or her oﬃcial responsibilities on behalf of the University.
Annual Notiﬁcation
1. Notice of Rights under FERPA: The University shall provide Annual Notice to each Student of his or
her rights under FERPA, this policy and Notice of Student Rights under FERPA and Notice Concerning
Directory Information , by publishing the information that is attached as Appendix A, in all general
information University's catalogues for undergraduate and graduate Students published by
the University.
2. Consent Requirements for Access to Education Records by Third Parties:
a. Generally Required for Disclosures of Education Records. The University will not disclose
Education Records or Personally Identiﬁable Information from an Education Record without prior
Consent of the Student to a third party, except as authorized by FERPA and this policy.
b. Exceptions to the Consent Requirement. The University, pursuant to FERPA, will release
Education Records without the Student's Consent as follows:
Procedures
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 4/12

i. Directory Information: Directory information may appear in public documents and may
otherwise be disclosed without student consent unless a student submits a written request to
the registrar during the ﬁrst twelve (12) days of class of a fall or spring semester, the ﬁrst four
(4) class days of a summer semester, or the ﬁrst three days of any quarter to withhold such
information from disclosure, as applicable or as otherwise designated by the University in the
Annual Notice. The Annual Notice required by Section C(1) of this policy and attached as
Appendix A, Notice of Student Rights under FERPA and Notice Concerning Directory Information,
shall provide speciﬁc information for Students wishing to exercise their right to have Directory
Information about them withheld from release by University. Upon graduation or termination
of a Student's enrollment for any reason, the release of the Student's Directory Information will
be governed by the Students Directory Information status in place during the Student's last
period of enrollment, unless the former Student changes that status.
ii. University Oﬃcials with a Legitimate Educational Interests in an Education Record are allowed
access to that Education Record. Inter-institutional disclosures may be made between
institutions that administer or participate in joint programs or activities, in accordance with
legitimate educational interest criteria. For example, an Education Record about a Student
concurrently enrolled in the University and another institution, or who receives services from
University (such as the provision of a distance education class) and from another institution
may be disclosed by University to the other institution under this subsection. This includes
services provided by University an institutions participating in distance education classes.
iii. Other Institutions: The University may release a student's education records to oﬃcials of
other educational institutions in which that Student seeks or intends to enroll or is enrolled.
iv. Audit or Evaluation of Federal or State education programs. The University of Texas Board of
Regents, authorized representatives of the Comptroller General of the United States, the
Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of Education and state and local
educational authorities who are authorized by law to audit and evaluate a Federal or State
supported education program, or to enforce Federal law which relates to such education
programs, or their authorized representatives may access an Education Record as required for
the audit, evaluation or enforcement purpose.
v. Financial Aid: The University may release an Education Record to persons or organizations in
connection with that student's application for, or receipt of, ﬁnancial aid to the extent
necessary for such purposes as determining eligibility, amount, conditions, and enforcement of
terms or conditions of such ﬁnancial aid.
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 5/12

vi. State and Local Oﬃcials Pursuant to Statutes Concerning Juvenile Justice. The University may
release education records to state and local oﬃcials that are authorized by statute to access
Student Education Records to eﬃciently serve the student.
vii. Organizations Conducting Studies: Organizations conducting studies for, or on behalf of the
University for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering predictive tests,
administering student aid programs, and improving instruction, may access Education Records
for such studies provided that the study is conducted in a manner which will not permit the
personal identiﬁcation of Students and/or their parents by individuals other than
representatives of the organization; and the information will be destroyed when no longer
needed for the purposes of the study was conducted. The term "organizations" includes, but is
not limited to, Federal, State, and local agencies, and independent organizations.
viii. Accrediting Organizations: Accrediting organizations may access an Education Record required
to carry out their accrediting functions.
ix. Designated Parents of a Tax Dependent: A parent of a Student who is a dependent for federal
tax purposes, as deﬁned by Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, if the Student
has indicated in writing to the University that his or her parents may access the Student'
Education Records in accordance with the designation. If a tax dependent Student's parents
are divorced, both parents may have access to the Student's Education Records, so long as at
least one parent is designated by the student.
x. Judicial Order or Subpoena: Information concerning a Student shall be released in response to
a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena. However, the University must make reasonable
eﬀorts to notify the Student of an order or subpoena before complying with it, except that the
University shall not notify a student of a subpoena if it is from a federal grand jury or is for law
enforcement purposes, and the subpoena or order provides that the University shall not
disclose to any person the existence or contents of the subpoena or any information furnished
in response to the subpoena. In addition, education records may be disclosed to the U.S.
Attorney General or his or her designee in response to an ex parte order concerning an
authorized investigation or prosecution of domestic or international terrorism, without prior
notice to the student.
xi. Health and Safety: The University may disclose student information deemed by the University
as appropriate persons in connection with an emergency in order to protect the health and
safety of the student or others individuals.
xii. Disciplinary Hearing Results:
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 6/12

I. Disclosure to Victims: The University may disclose to an alleged victim of any crime of
violence (as that term is deﬁned in Chapter 1, Section 16 of Title 18, United States Code), or
a non-forcible sex oﬀense, the ﬁnal results of any disciplinary proceeding conducted by the
University against the alleged perpetrator of such crime or oﬀense with respect to such
crime or oﬀense, regardless of whether the alleged perpetrator was found responsible for
violating the University's rules or policies with respect to such crime or oﬀense.
II. Disclosure to Third Parties: The University may disclose the ﬁnal results of any disciplinary
proceeding against a student who is an alleged perpetrator of any crime of violence or non-
forcible sex oﬀense (as those terms are deﬁned in 34 C.F.R. 99.39), if the student is found
responsible for violating the University's rules or policies with respect to such crime or
oﬀense. Such disclosure shall include only the name of the student, the violation committed,
and any sanction imposed by the University on that student. Such disclosure may include
the name of any other Student, such as a victim or witness, only with the written consent of
that other Student.
III. Alcohol and Drug Violations: The University may disclose to a parent or legal guardian of a
Student, information regarding any violation of any Federal, State, or local law, or of any rule
or policy of the University, governing the use or possession of alcohol or a controlled
substance, regardless of whether that information is contained in the Student's Education
Records, if the Student is under the age of 21 at the time of disclosure to the parent, and the
University determines that the Student is responsible for a disciplinary violation with respect
to such use or possession.
xiii. Defense of Litigation or Complaints against the University: If a Student initiates legal action
against the University, the University may disclose to the court or agency with jurisdiction over
the complaint, without a court order or subpoena, the Student's Education Records that are
relevant for the University to defend itself.
c. Consent of the Student: The University will release Education Records to or allow access to those
records by a third party if the Student provides a valid Consent capable of veriﬁcation that it was
provided by the Student that permits access by the third party.
3. Disclosure to the Student:
a. A Student has the right, upon request, to review all materials that are in the student's education
records, except:
i. Financial information submitted by the Student's parents;
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 7/12

ii. Conﬁdential letters and recommendations associated with admissions, employment or job
placement, or honors, to which the student has waived rights of inspection and review or
which were made part of the Student's Education Records prior to January 1, 1975, provided
those letters were collected under established policies of conﬁdentiality and were used only
for the purposes for which they were collected;
iii. Education records containing information about more than one Student, in which case the
University will permit access only to that part of the record that pertains to the inquiring
student; and
iv. Records that are subject to an attorney-client privilege which belongs to the University.
b. Process for Students Requesting Access to their Education Record: Please contact the speciﬁc
department administrator related to the education record [For speciﬁc departments and the
records kept in that department, please see Appendix B] Except where pre-empted by a speciﬁc
provision of FERPA or a request for oﬃcial copies of Student's transcript is requested, a Student's
right to access and/or request a copy of his or her Educational Records, a Students right of access
or to copies such records is co-extensive with the Student's right to access records under the
Texas Public Information Act (TPIA).
i. Requests by a Student for Education Records that are available to a Student under an
applicable provision of the Texas Public Information Act (TPIA) shall be processed by the
University in accordance with policies for access to records under the TPIA.
ii. Records pre-empted from availability under the TPIA by FERPA will be made available within
forty-ﬁve days of the request.
iii. Requests for oﬃcial copies of transcripts or other academic records will not be released for
students who have a delinquent ﬁnancial obligation or ﬁnancial "hold" at the University.
4. Record of Disclosures: The University will maintain with the Student's Education Records a record
for each disclosure request and each disclosure, except disclosures:
a. to the Student;
b. pursuant to the written consent of the student;
c. pursuant to the exception for University oﬃcials with a Legitimate Educational Interests;
d. pursuant to a law enforcement subpoena and the issuing court or other issuing agency has
ordered that the existence or the contents of the subpoena or the information furnished in
response to the subpoena not be disclosed or the order is concerning an authorized investigation
or prosecution of domestic or international terrorism; or
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 8/12

e. of directory information.
5. Requests to Amend Records. A Student who believes that an Education Record maintained about
the Student is inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy rights under
FERPA, may request amendment of the record. However, substantive judgment of a faculty
member about a student's work, expressed in grades and/or evaluations, is not within the purview
of this right.
a. Informal requests: A Student may request the opportunity for informal discussion regarding
amendment of the record with the University oﬃce concerned with the particular record. If
agreement is reached with respect to the student's request, the appropriate records will be
amended. If the record is not amended pursuant to the Student's request, the University will
inform the Student of its decision and of the Student's right to request a formal hearing.
b. Requests for a hearing: Requests must be made in writing to the Dean of Students, who within a
reasonable period of time after receiving such request, will inform the Student of the date, place,
and time of the hearing. The hearing oﬃcer that will adjudicate such challenges will be appointed
by the President.
c. A student may present evidence at the hearing relevant to the issues raised and may be assisted
or represented at the hearing by one or more persons of the Student's choice, including
attorneys, at the student's expense.
d. The decision of the hearing oﬃcer will be ﬁnal, will be based solely on the evidence presented at
the hearing, and will consist of a written statement summarizing the evidence and stating the
reasons for the decision, and will be delivered to all parties concerned.
e. If the decision is in favor of the Student, the Education Records will be corrected or amended in
accordance with the decision of the hearing oﬃcer.
f. If the decision is unsatisfactory to the Student, the Student may place with the Education Record
a statement commenting on the information in the record or a statement setting forth any
reasons for disagreeing with the decisions of the hearing oﬃcer, or both. The statement will be
maintained as part of the Student's Education Records, and released whenever the record(s) in
question is disclosed.
g. Students who believe that the adjudications of their challenges were unfair or not in keeping
with the provisions of FERPA may request in writing, assistance from the President of
the institution.
6. Complaints. Complaints regarding alleged violations of the rights accorded students by the Federal
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act may be ﬁled with the Family Policy and Regulations
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 9/12

Oﬃce, US Department of Education, Washington, D.C. 20203.
Notice of Student Rights under FERPA
Notice Concerning Directory Information
FERPA – Parents Certiﬁcation of Dependency
Appendices
Appendix A
Appendix B
RECORD OFFICE
RESPONSIBLE UNIVERSITY
OFFICIAL
Education Record
Permanent
Oﬃce of the Registrar University Registrar
Disciplinary Record Dean of Students Dean of Students
Financial Aid Financial Aid Director of Financial Aid
Police University Police Chief of Police
International Student
Record
International Student Services
Oﬃce
Director of International Center
Academic Transcript
Oﬃce of the Registrar
University Registrar
Academic Disciplinary
Record
Dean of Students
Dean of Students
Financial Accounts
Bursar's Oﬃce
Director of Student Financials
Student Health Records
Student Health Center
Director of Student Health
RECORD OFFICE
RESPONSIBLE UNIVERSITY
OFFICIAL
Education Record
Permanent
Oﬃce of the Registrar University Registrar
Disciplinary Record Dean of Students Dean of Students
Financial Aid Financial Aid Director of Financial Aid
Police University Police Chief of Police
International Student
Record
International Student Services
Oﬃce
Director of International Center
Academic Transcript
Oﬃce of the Registrar
University Registrar
Academic Disciplinary
Record
Dean of Students
Dean of Students
Financial Accounts
Bursar's Oﬃce
Director of Student Financials
Student Health Records
Student Health Center
Director of Student Health
Forms and Tools
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 10/12

FERPA – Request for Conﬁdentiality
FERPA – Third Party Release
UT Dallas Subchapter C of UTDSP5003 - Information Security and FERPA
The University of Texas System Board of Regents - Rule 50702
The University of Texas System Administration Policy – UTS183
The University of Texas System Administration Internal Policy – INT183
Oﬃce of General Counsel
Department of Education - Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C §1232g
Related Statutes, Policies, Requirements or Standards
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 11/12

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDSP5010 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdsp5010 12/12
