Home / Academic/Facul / UTDPP1120
The University of Texas at Dallas (UT Dallas) will provide learners various pathways to earn
credentials that will meet current workforce needs. Learners include UT Dallas enrolled students
desiring proﬁciency in certain disciplines, UT Dallas alumni who need to update their skills and
abilities to remain current in their chosen ﬁelds, and those who may or may not possess a degree but
need a credential to pursue employment opportunities and to advance their careers. Irrespective of
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Deﬁnitions
Transferring in Alternative Credentials
Approvals
Assessment
Periodic Certiﬁcate Program Reviews
Recognition of Certiﬁcate Completion on...
Recognition of Earned Credentials on...
Closing a Certiﬁcate Program
Declaring Admission into a Certiﬁcate...
Financial Aid
UTDPP1120
Academic Credentials Policy - Certificates, Digital
Badges, and Recognition of Completion
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 1/8

their status, learners' skills and accomplishments will be recognized with veriﬁable and identiﬁable
methods, including transcripts and digital badges.
Academic Certiﬁcates: Consist of semester-based, credit-bearing, and graded UT Dallas courses
oﬀered on the undergraduate, graduate, and post-baccalaureate levels. UT Dallas academic
certiﬁcates typically have a minimum of semester credit hours (SCH), ranging from 9 to 15 SCH.
Lower or higher SCH requirements may be appropriate depending on the scope of the subject of the
certiﬁcate. Completed certiﬁcates are recorded in academic records and on transcripts.
Embedded Academic Certiﬁcates: Some UT Dallas degree programs have embedded certiﬁcates that
can be completed en route to completion of the degree program. Students who enroll in embedded
academic certiﬁcates are degree-seeking students at UT Dallas.
Stand-alone Academic Certiﬁcates: Certiﬁcates designated as stand-alone may be taken by students
enrolled in degree programs as well as by students only seeking the certiﬁcate (non degree seeking).
Admission to a stand-alone academic certiﬁcate program does not constitute admission to a degree
program. Generally, students are certiﬁcate-seeking, although they may choose to apply to degree
programs and become degree-seeking.
Professional Certiﬁcates:Consist of non-credit modules aimed at full-time professionals (non-degree
seeking students) who are seeking additional knowledge and/or certiﬁcation. These certiﬁcates are
typically earned in a short timeframe within a year or less. Learners will receive awarded certiﬁcates
that will not be recorded on transcripts; learners may receive digital badges and/or other approved
institutional documents.
Digital Badges: A digital badge is a digital representation that recognizes participation and
competencies, skills and achievements earned by learners. These badges will include veriﬁable and
identiﬁable data associated with the speciﬁc learner. Digital badges are most commonly awarded for
professional certiﬁcates, but may also recognize the completion of other activities.
Alternative Credential Platforms: Non-traditional and digital credentials are oﬀered through UT
Dallas' partnerships with approved third-party vendors. These alternative credentials may be viewed
Definitions
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 2/8

as pathways to obtain attainable and accessible education. Such courses or modules may be used as
materials supplemental to instruction provided within UT Dallas graded, organized courses or may be
oﬀered as a stand-alone program. Digital badges do not come with letter grades upon completion,
and therefore do not add or subtract to an enrolled student's GPA, or produce a GPA for non-enrolled
students. The following section on Transfer Credit provides additional information regarding credit
earned within these platforms.
Students may petition for transfer credit when they provide oﬃcial documentation of awarded digital
badges or other alternative credentials according to the policies and procedures of the University
Catalog. As credit is petitioned after admission, academic credit for awarded alternative credentials
will not be considered as part of an applicant's transferable GPA or transfer hours for admission.
Some schools or programs may opt not to allow individual petitions for credit for awarded digital
badges, as speciﬁed on their departmental websites.
Before an academic certiﬁcate that meets these deﬁnitions can be advertised or students enrolled,
the program must be approved according to the school's curricular approval process; the Chief
Academic Oﬃcer; the Oﬃce of Institutional Success and Decision Support; the Graduate Council or
the Council for Undergraduate Education, as appropriate; the Committee on Educational Policy; and
the Academic Senate. An assessment plan must accompany every proposal request to establish an
academic certiﬁcate. Proposals may include a request that a digital badge be created for the program;
this should assert that the program constitutes a "credential of value" or comparable oﬀering as
speciﬁed by THECB.
Changing the academic certiﬁcate program's length (semester credit hours) may be subject to the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) approval in
accordance with the SACSCOC Substantive Change Policy.
Templates for academic certiﬁcates and for assessment plans can be found online on the New
Certiﬁcate Program Forms website.
Transferring in Alternative Credentials
Approvals
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 3/8

Approvals should be secured for professional certiﬁcates before oﬀering them. Schools interested in
oﬀering these types of credentials are encouraged to review the Professional Certiﬁcate template.
Academic certiﬁcates will be assessed annually, according to the assessment plan on ﬁle, per
guidance of the University Assessment Committee (see UTDPP1098).
Academic certiﬁcate programs will be reviewed periodically, in accord with UTDPP1013 Academic
Program Review. Embedded certiﬁcates should be reviewed at the same time as the degrees in which
they are embedded, and stand-alone certiﬁcates with the same CIP codes should also be reviewed at
that time.
Undergraduate academic certiﬁcates: The student's transcript will reﬂect that the student has
completed the undergraduate level academic certiﬁcate program, if the student (a) has a grade point
average of at least 2.0 in the organized courses that constitute the undergraduate academic
certiﬁcate program, (b) meets all academic standards as required by the school and stated in the
University Catalog, (c) the certiﬁcate program and the courses constituting such program are listed in
the University Catalog, and (d) the student declares to the Responsible University Oﬃcial (RUO) of
the Program their intent to complete the certiﬁcate.
Graduate academic certiﬁcates: The student's transcript will reﬂect that the student has completed
the graduate level academic certiﬁcate program, if the student (a) has a grade point average of at
least 3.0 in the organized courses that constitute the graduate academic certiﬁcate program, (b)
meets all academic standards as required by the school and stated in the University Catalog, (c) the
certiﬁcate program and the courses constituting such program are listed in the University Catalog,
and (d) the student declares to the RUO of the Program their intent to complete the certiﬁcate.
Students must apply to graduate with the certiﬁcate. A certiﬁcate will be awarded according to the
University Catalog graduation deadlines and requirements. The Oﬃce of the Registrar will certify that
Assessment
Periodic Certificate Program Reviews
Recognition of Certificate Completion on Student Transcripts
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 4/8

all undergraduate certiﬁcate program requirements have been met and will award the student's
certiﬁcate. The Oﬃce of Graduate Education will certify that all graduate certiﬁcate program
requirements have been met and will award the student's graduate certiﬁcate.
The oﬃcial academic transcript remains as the oﬃcial document and will list the degree and major,
and if applicable, second major, double degree, minors, concentrations, designations, academic
certiﬁcates, and academic honors. Other institutional documents may include the following:
1. Digital badge: an oﬃcial record that recognizes participation and competencies, skills and
achievements earned by learners and awarded upon completion.
2. Comprehensive Learner Record (CLR): an oﬃcial portable document that captures diﬀerent
methods of learning, both in and outside of the classroom, by recording career ready skills and
experiences earned by learners. The document may include one or more credentials, such as
badges, degrees, certiﬁcates, courses, and experiences.
In accordance with the University and Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on
Colleges (SACSCOC) Substantive Change policies, an academic certiﬁcate program may not be closed
until UT Dallas has received prior SACSCOC approval of a teach-out plan. The dean of the school
must submit to the Oﬃce of Institutional Success and Decision Support (OISDS) a memo that
includes the rationale for closure (such as low enrollments or shifts in market demand) and a teach-
out plan for currently enrolled students. OISDS will submit the request to SACSCOC.
A teach-out plan is not needed when closing a professional certiﬁcate program; however, the dean of
the school should notify the OISDS if the professional program is closed so that the oﬃce can update
the University's comprehensive authorized oﬀerings list.
Recognition of Earned Credentials on Other
Institutional Documents
Closing a Certificate Program
Declaring Admission into a Certificate Program and Reporting
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 5/8

Students must declare admission into a certiﬁcate program so that they can be tracked within the
University's student data system as a certiﬁcate program student. Students must declare admission to
an embedded certiﬁcate before Census Day of the ﬁrst term of certiﬁcate enrollment. Students must
declare admission to a stand-alone certiﬁcate according to admission deadlines within the University
Catalog. Admission to certiﬁcate programs is outlined in the University Catalog.
Federal and state ﬁnancial aid is not available for certiﬁcate programs at UTD. While students may
qualify for ﬁnancial aid for degree programs that include certiﬁcate courses, they are not eligible for
aid speciﬁcally for the certiﬁcate programs themselves. Additionally, ﬁnancial aid is not available for
digital badges.
Financial Aid
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 6/8

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 7/8

© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:37 PM UTDPP1120 Academic Credentials Policy - Certiﬁcates, Digital Badges, and Recognition of Completion | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | T…
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1120 8/8
