Home / Human Resourc / UTDBP3051
The University seeks to maintain salary and wage schedules for all non-teaching positions which:
1. Assures uniform treatment of comparable positions,
2. Aﬀords opportunity for recognition of quality and length of service,
3. Recognizes the relative value of each position within the University structure,
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Fair Labor Standards Act (Exempt...
Hours of Work
Overtime Compensation
Holidays
Hazardous Duty Pay
Longevity Pay
Payday
Payroll Deductions
Classiﬁed Compensation Plan
Wage and Salary Surveys
Job Audits
UTDBP3051
Pay Administration
Policy Statement

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 1/17

4. Considers pay practices applicable to comparable public and private employment, and
5. Reﬂects the general economic conditions eﬀecting wage and salary policy.
It is the policy of The University of Texas at Dallas (the University) to comply with the Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA), as amended. The FLSA establishes the federal minimum wage, overtime
regulations, child labor regulations and related record keeping requirements for employers.
The University will pay all employees, including student workers, at least the federal minimum wage
required by the FLSA.
University employees employed in a bona ﬁde executive, administrative or professional capacity, as
deﬁned by the Secretary of Labor, are exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of
the FLSA.
1. Subject to the following exceptions, an exempt employee will receive full salary for any week in
which work is performed without regard to the days and number of hours worked. Exempt
employees need not be paid for any workweek in which they perform no work.
a. Deductions may be made when the employee absences himself or herself from work for one or
more full days for personal reasons, other than sickness or disability or other circumstances for
which leave with pay or release time is available.
b. Deductions may be made for absences of a day or more occasioned by sickness or disability
(including work-related accidents) if the deduction is made after exhaustion of paid sick leave or
workers' compensation beneﬁts.
c. Deductions may be made for penalties imposed for infractions of signiﬁcant safety rules relating
to prevention of serious danger to the workplace or to other employees.
d. Deductions may be made for disciplinary suspensions of one or more full days imposed for
infractions of workplace conduct rules.
Fair Labor Standards Act (Exempt Status)
Minimum Wage
Overtime
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 2/17

e. Full salary is not necessary in the initial or terminal week of employment where a proportional
part of the salary is paid for time actually worked.
2. Deductions may be made for absences of less than one day for personal reasons or due to sickness
when accrued leave is not used because permission for its use has not been sought or has been
denied, accrued sick leave and vacation have been exhausted, or the employee chooses to use
leave without pay.
3. An exempt employee who believes his or her pay has been subject to improper deductions under
this policy should immediately contact the Oﬃce of Human Resources. The complaint will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the University grievance procedure, D8-140.0.
4. The University will reimburse exempt employees for any deductions in pay determined to be
improper under the FLSA and take appropriate steps to ensure future compliance.
Non-exempt employees will be paid overtime in compliance with Federal and State regulations.
The University complies with all child labor regulations, which are summarized below. Departments
wishing to employ youths under age 18 must contact Human Resources to be certain that the
regulations are followed.
1. A youth 18 years or older may perform any job, whether hazardous or not, for unlimited hours.
2. A youth 16 or 17 years old may perform a non-hazardous job for unlimited hours.
3. A youth 14 or 15 years old may work outside school hours in various non-manufacturing, non-
mining, non-hazardous jobs. They cannot work:
a. More than 3 hours a day on school days,
b. More than 18 hours per week in school weeks,
c. More than 8 hours a day on non-school days,
d. More than 40 hours per week when school is not in session, and
e. Not before 7:00 AM or after 7:00 PM, except from June 1 through Labor Day, when the hours
may be extended to 9:00 PM.
Child Labor
Record Keeping
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 3/17

Departments must maintain accurate, contemporary records of position classiﬁcation, exemption
status, hours worked by non-exempt employees and paid and un-paid leave.
For more information about the federal minimum wage, overtime regulations, child labor regulations
or record keeping requirements under the FLSA, please contact the Oﬃce of Human Resources.
It is the policy of The University of Texas at Dallas to comply with applicable federal and state
statutes regarding hours of work.
1. A UT Dallas employee who is paid a full-time salary and whose position is exempt from the Fair
Labor Standards Act shall work not less than 40 hours a week.
2. A UT Dallas employee who is paid a full-time salary and whose position is subject to the overtime
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act shall work 40 hours a week.
3. Employees described by Procedure 2, above must have the advance written approval of their
department head before working more than 40 hours in a FLSA work week, in accordance with the
section "Overtime Compensation" in this policy.
Texas Government Code Section 658.002
The University of Texas at Dallas, as a component of the U.T. System, is required to use deﬁnitions
and standards applicable under the Fair Labor Standards Act to comply with the General
Appropriations Act, Article IX, Section 2, concerning overtime compensation requirements.
The schedule of activities should be organized such that employees are not required to work in
excess of established work periods (see "Hours of Work," this section) except when operating
For More Information
Hours of Work
Procedures
Authority
Overtime Compensation
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 4/17

necessities demand it. Any overtime served which results in an employee being paid for his/her
services must have the advance written approval of the President or his/her designee. The President
has delegated this authority to the department heads.
Monthly records of payment for overtime shall be maintained by Payroll showing the number of
employees compensated and total amount paid.
Employees in a non-exempt status required or permitted to work in excess of forty hours in a work
week shall be compensated for such overtime either:
1. By receiving compensatory time oﬀ during the six (6) month period following the end of the work
week in which the overtime was accrued at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) hours oﬀ for each
hour of overtime, or;
2. By receiving pay for the overtime at the rate equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) the employee's
regular rate of pay.
NOTE: An employee who fails to utilize time oﬀ during the stated six month period does not remove
the supervisor's responsibility to ensure paid time or time oﬀ.
Any paid leave or holidays taken are not counted as hours worked in determining overtime hours. In
situations in which the employee has not worked more than 40 hours in a work week but the total
hours worked and hours of paid leave or paid holidays exceeds 40 hours, the employee shall be
allowed equivalent compensatory time oﬀ for the excess hours.
Employees who have accrued, but unused, compensatory time oﬀ shall be paid for such overtime
upon termination, death or when the compensatory time balances: 480 hours for employees engaged
in public safety or emergency response activities; 240 hours for all other categories of employees.
(NOTE: The 480 hour limit represents 320 hours of actual overtime hours worked times the one-and-
one-half premium rate, and the 240 hour limit represents 160 hours of actual overtime worked times
the one-and-one-half premium rate.) The regular rate of pay shall include longevity pay, hazardous
duty pay and housing emoluments.
Non-Exempt Employees
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 5/17

Those employees who are not subject to the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act may,
at the discretion of the appropriate administrative oﬃcial, be allowed compensatory time oﬀ for
hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a work week in which the combination of hours worked, paid
leave and holidays exceeds a total of 40 hours. Such compensatory time oﬀ may be allowed during
the 12 month period following the end of the work week in which the overtime was accrued, at a rate
not to exceed equivalent time.
The University of Texas at Dallas provides paid holiday leave in accordance with provisions of the
Texas Government Code.
This policy applies to any employee who is appointed to work at least twenty (20) hours per week for
a period of at least four and one-half (4 1/2) continuous months. Faculty must be appointed for at
least ﬁfty percent (50%) time for at least four and one-half (4 1/2) continuous months to be eligible
for holidays. Students employed in positions that require student status as a condition of employment
are not eligible for holidays.
Eligible employees appointed less than full-time will be granted holiday leave based on the percent of
hours appointed.
The number of holidays is authorized by the Legislature. The University administration may rearrange
the approved holiday schedule within the total number of days provided by the Legislature to the
extent authorized by law. The schedule is distributed to employees annually.
Exempt Employees
Holidays
Scope
Employees Appointed Less than Full-Time
Holiday Schedule
Floating Holiday
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 6/17

At the discretion of the University, an annual holiday schedule may include some number of ﬂoating
holiday hours that may be used by full-time, regular employees. Regular employees appointed for less
than 40 hours receive ﬂoating holiday hour entitlement proportionate to the number of hours
worked. Use of ﬂoating holiday time may be scheduled at any time during the ﬁscal year with the
prior approval of the employee's immediate supervisor. Unused ﬂoating holiday time carries over
from one year to the next. Employees are paid for any unused ﬂoating holiday time upon separation
from the University.
If a state or national holiday falls between the dates an employee transfers, without a break in
service, from one state agency or institution of higher education to another, the agency to which the
employee transfers is responsible for paying the employee for the holiday, regardless of whether the
agency or institution of higher education that received the new employee recognizes the holiday.
When a holiday falls on an employee's day oﬀ or an employee is required to work on a holiday, the
employee will be granted straight time holiday compensatory time in lieu of the holiday. Employees
may be paid for holiday compensatory time hours on a straight time basis when the taking of the
holiday compensatory time would be disruptive to normal teaching, research or other critical
functions. The holiday compensatory time must be taken or paid out during the 12-month period
following the date of the holiday.
The holiday compensatory time may also be used to observe any additional religious holiday or
holidays, or state or national holiday that is not oﬃcially observed by the University. This time oﬀ
must be scheduled with the prior approval of the employee's immediate supervisor.
Use of accrued holiday compensatory time must be scheduled with the prior approval of the
employee's immediate supervisor. The employee shall promptly and accurately record the use
of leave.
Payment of Holiday for Transferring Employees
Holiday Compensatory Time
Employee Responsibilities
Supervisor Responsibilities
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 7/17

The supervisor must review and approve the use of holiday compensatory time, verify that the
employee has accurately recorded such leave, and sign the time report.
Authority is hereby delegated to the department head or designee to determine holiday work
schedules and approve use of holiday compensatory leave.
Questions regarding holiday leave should be directed to the Oﬃce of Human Resources
Source: Texas Government Code 662.004, 662.007, 662.0072, 662.011
Eligible law enforcement personnel of The University of Texas at Dallas are entitled to Hazardous
Duty Pay in accordance with applicable law. Hazardous Duty Pay shall be in the amount of ten dollars
per month for each year of service with the State of Texas. This service must be in a position that
requires the performance of hazardous duty. This policy applies to eligibility for Hazardous Duty Pay
or Longevity Pay based on services performed by the employee on or after May 29, 1987.
1. All full-time commissioned law enforcement personnel are eligible for Hazardous Duty Pay.Full-
time is deﬁned as employment of forty hours per week.
2. After completion of 12 months service, Hazardous Duty Pay commences on the ﬁrst day of the
next month at the speciﬁed rate and continues at that rate until the completion of another 12-
month increment.
3. Hazardous Duty Pay eligibility is determined by the employee's status on the ﬁrst calendar day of
the month. Hazardous Duty Pay shall not be prorated.
4. Example of Hazardous Duty Pay. Note: With the exception of the Department of Criminal Justice
Correctional Oﬃcers, there is no cap on hazardous duty pay. For purposes of this example, the
amount of hazardous duty pay has been calculated only through 5 years:
Delegation of Authority
For Assistance
Hazardous Duty Pay
Policy
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 8/17

HAZARDOUS DUTY PAY EXAMPLE
YEARS OF SERVICE MONTHLY HAZARDOUS DUTY PAY
More than 2 and fewer than 3 years $20
More than 4 and fewer than 5 years $40
A State employee who has received Longevity Pay for service performed in a position that does not
require the performance of hazardous duty and who transfers to a position for which the employee is
eligible to receive Hazardous Duty Pay is entitled to continue to receive Longevity Pay for the service
performed in the prior position. The employee is not entitled to additional Longevity Pay for the
period in which the employee receives Hazardous Duty Pay but that period is included in computing
the employee's total years of service as an employee of the State.
A State employee who is in a position that requires the performance of hazardous duty and transfers
to a position that does not require the performance of hazardous duty is not entitled to a
continuation of the Hazardous Duty Pay earned in the prior position. The employee is entitled to
Longevity Pay based on each year of service as an employee of the State, including years of service in
positions for which the employee was entitled to Hazardous Duty Pay.
Hazardous Duty Pay is considered a part of total compensation although the base salary rate of the
employee is not eﬀected by such payment. The inclusion of Hazardous Duty Pay as part of total
compensation eﬀects federal withholding, OASDI, the amount of group insurance and other beneﬁt
calculations, and retirement contributions.
Hazardous Duty Pay is not considered in making calculations for lump-sum payment of vacation upon
termination. It is considered in making calculation for lump-sum payments of vacation and sick leave
to the estate of a deceased employee.
Eligible employees of The University of Texas at Dallas are entitled to Longevity Pay.
More than 1 and fewer than 2 years
$10
More than 3 and fewer than 4 years
$30
More than 5 and fewer than 6 years
$50
Longevity Pay
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 9/17

Full-time non-academic employees, excluding law enforcement personnel eligible for hazardous duty
pay, are eligible for Longevity Pay. Full-time is deﬁned as employment of forty (40) hours per week.
"Non-academic employee" is deﬁned as:
1. An employee whose appointment is within the classiﬁed service.
2. An employee who has an administrative or other staﬀ appointment without regular
teaching assignments.
For purposes of Longevity Pay, eligible service is calculated in the same manner as the basic state
service calculation used to determine annual leave rate accrual. This calculation recognizes all service
to the state including part-time, faculty, student employment and legislative service.
Eﬀective September 1, 2005, Longevity Pay begins on the ﬁrst day of the month following the
completion of 2 years of service and continues at the speciﬁed rate until the completion of another
2-year increment of service.
Longevity Pay cannot be prorated. A change in status occurring during the month is eﬀective the ﬁrst
day of the following month. For example, an employee appointed September 1 of a given year
completes 2 years of service on August 31, two years later. The longevity payment will commence on
the ﬁrst day of the next month, September 1. An employee appointed on September 2 of a given year
will complete 2 years of service on September 1, two years later. The pay will commence on the ﬁrst
day of the next month, October 1.
For transfers between institutions or agencies, the institution or agency employing an individual on
the ﬁrst day of the month is responsible for the Longevity Pay for that month.
Longevity Pay is paid in accordance with the schedule established by the Legislature. The schedule
eﬀective September 1, 2005, appears below.
Eligibility
Calculation of Longevity Pay
Schedule of Payment
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 10/17

YEARS OF SERVICE MONTHLY LONGEVITY PAY
Less than 2 $0
Greater than 4 and less than 6 $40
Greater than 8 and less than 10 $80
Greater than 12 and less than 14 $120
Greater than 16 and less than 18 $160
Greater than 20 and less than 22 $200
Greater than 24 and less than 26 $240
Greater than 28 and less than 30 $280
Greater than 32 and less than 34 $320
Greater than 36 and less than 38 $360
Greater than 40 and less than 42 $400
Longevity Pay is considered a part of total compensation although the base salary rate of an
employee is not eﬀected by such payment. Separate lump-sum payments for Longevity Pay are not
Greater than 2 and less than 4
$20
Greater than 6 and less than 8
$60
Greater than 10 and less than 12
$100
Greater than 14 and less than 16
$140
Greater than 18 and less than 20
$180
Greater than 22 and less than 24
$220
Greater than 26 and less than 28
$260
Greater than 30 and less than 32
$300
Greater than 34 and less than 36
$340
Greater than 38 and less than 40
$380
Greater than 42
$420
Method of Payment
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 11/17

authorized -- such payment is included as part of regular payroll procedure.
The inclusion of Longevity Pay as part of total compensation eﬀects federal withholding, OASDI, the
amount of group insurance and other beneﬁt calculations, and retirement contributions.
Longevity Pay is not considered in making calculations for lump-sum payment of vacation upon
termination. It is, however, considered in making calculations for lump-sum payments of vacation and
sick leave to the estate of a deceased employee.
Payday for salaried employees will usually be the ﬁrst day of the next month unless that day falls on a
weekend or holiday, in which case the payday will then be the ﬁrst workday following the weekend or
holiday. This pay is for work performed in the preceding month. New employees should not expect to
receive their ﬁrst paycheck until thirty (30) days after their employment date.
Hourly employees will be paid on the 1st and 15th day of each month, unless that day is a holiday or
weekend, in which case payday will be the ﬁrst business day following the holiday or weekend. Work
performed the 1st – 15th will be paid on the 1st of the following month and work performed the
16th – end of the month will be paid on the 15th of the following month. (For example, payday for
March 1st will cover work performed February 1st – February 15th)
Certain payroll deductions are mandatory and include:
1. Federal Income Tax,
2. Social Security Tax, and
3. Optional Retirement Program or Teacher Retirement System contributions.
Payday
Salaried Employees
Hourly Employees
Payroll Deductions
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 12/17

Other deductions are according to optional beneﬁts an employee selects and are made as a service to
the individual. These may include but are not limited to:
1. Insurance premiums,
2. Deferred compensation,
3. Tax-sheltered annuity,
4. Savings bonds (Payroll Savings Plan) and
5. State Employee Charitable Campaign Contribution.
Every employee should check all deductions and verify social security number for accuracy. If an error
is found or if there are any questions regarding deductions, please contact the Payroll Oﬃce.
The Pay Plan for Classiﬁed Service consists of:
1. A schedule of appropriately descriptive class titles,
2. A schedule of pay ranges in monthly and annual amounts,
3. A schedule showing the range to which each class is assigned and
4. Policies regarding the interpretation and application of the above schedules.
The Plan, which shows position titles and associated pay ranges, is maintained to reﬂect the duties,
responsibilities, and work requirements of all Classiﬁed jobs by grouping substantially equivalent
positions into the same classiﬁcation. A salary range, including a minimum and a maximum,
is assigned to each job position, and substantially equivalent positions are grouped into the
same classiﬁcation.
Recommendations for changes to the Plan may be presented at any time in letter form to the Human
Resources Oﬃce by a supervisor via the appropriate Vice President. The Pay Plan can be changed as
Classified Compensation Plan
Pay Plan
Maintenance of Pay Plan
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 13/17

necessary upon approval by the Board of Regents.
Beginning Rates: Normally, the minimum rate of pay for a classiﬁcation will be paid an employee upon
initial appointment to the classiﬁcation. However, under unusual circumstances, the employing
administrative oﬃcer may recommend, in writing through Human Resources, and with the approval of
the appropriate Vice President, that an employee begin at a rate of pay above the minimum.
Across-the-Board Increases: When an across-the-board increase is declared for state employees, the
relative position of an employee within a pay range does not change, but rather the entire pay range
is adjusted to reﬂect the economic change.
Within Range Increase (Merit): When funds are available, the budget guidelines established by the
Board of Regents provide for salary increases based upon individual merit. These guidelines vary from
year to year; however, such increases in salary must be supported by a current Performance
Appraisal on ﬁle in Human Resources. Adjustments within an established range are not automatic
but are dependent upon the speciﬁc recommendation by an administrative oﬃcer during the annual
budget cycle.
The beginning salary for an employee with the temporary status of "trainee" will not be more than
10% below the minimum for the class to which he/she is appointed. Unless unusual circumstances
dictate, the period of appointment in a "trainee" status will not exceed six (6) months. Consult the
Human Resources Oﬃce as to what may constitute "unusual circumstances." Actions that may be
taken at the end of the training period are noted under "Appointments, Trainee Status," this Section.
When an employee is transferred, promoted, or demoted, the rate of pay for the new position will be
determined as follows:
1. If the rate of pay in the old position was less than the minimum rate for the new position, the rate
of pay may be advanced to the minimum for the new position.
Rates of Pay
Pay for an Employee on Trainee Status
Pay Adjustments in Transfers, Promotions and Demotions
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 14/17

2. If the rate of pay in the old position was greater than or equal to the minimum rate, and less than
the maximum rate, for the new position, the new rate of pay may either remain unchanged or be
advanced 3.5% in the new classiﬁcation.
3. If the rate of pay in the old position was more than the maximum rate for the new position, the rate
of pay may be reduced to a point within the range of the new position as determined by the
administrative oﬃcer.
4. If an employee is transferring within the same job class, but to another department, the rate of pay
will remain unchanged.
If it is determined by an administrative oﬃcer that payment of monthly rates for certain classes of
employees within his/her jurisdiction is not feasible because of temporary or intermittent nature of
the work, that administrative oﬃcer may request the payment of an hourly rate for those eﬀected
classes which are exceptions to the normal monthly payment schedule. Such exceptions will be
computed as follows:
Hourly Rate =Class Annual Rate/2080
In any case, monthly or hourly employees whose titles fall under the Classiﬁed Pay Plan must be paid
on a step noted in the appropriate table within the Pay Plan.
The Human Resources Oﬃce will conduct wage and salary surveys to determine competitive job
rates within the local labor market. Some positions will be surveyed on a national basis. Surveys are
intended to:
1. Keep abreast of wage rate trends,
2. Establish a hiring rate comparable to local community (or national, if applicable),
3. Minimize personnel turnover caused by inadequate compensation practices,
4. Minimize employee dissatisfaction and improve morale by establishing equitable wage scales, and
5. Obtain information on current fringe beneﬁt practices.
Computation of Rates
Wage and Salary Surveys
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 15/17

The results of surveys are used to propose adjustments in the Classiﬁed Pay Plan to the Board of
Regents during the annual budget cycle. Supplementary wage and salary surveys may be conducted
whenever the inability to hire at the current minimum rates occurs.
The purpose of a job audit is to determine the equity of a Classiﬁed position with respect to pay,
rating, duties, responsibilities, etc. The Human Resources Oﬃce, at the request of a supervisor, via
the appropriate Vice President, may audit a particular Classiﬁed position or may audit either newly
created or vacated positions to determine:
1. The need for such positions,
2. That equitable salary ranges have been established,and
3. That the position has been properly classiﬁed.
This policy should not be construed to mean that Human Resources will audit every existing, newly
created or vacated Classiﬁed position. They will normally do so only at the request of a supervisor.
Job Audits
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 16/17

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
GIVING
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:53 PM UTDBP3051 Pay Administration | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3051 17/17
