Home / Student Life / UTDPP1009
The Campus Housing Advisory Committee is a Standing Committee of The University of Texas at
Dallas appointed by the President.
The Committee is charged to advise the Associate Vice President for Student Aﬀairs on policies,
procedures, and rules which will optimize the overall operation of university-owned housing. The
scope of the Committee's purview shall include such areas as ﬁnancial and physical operations and
facilities, student services and programs, and all other matters related to university-owned housing
that the Committee shall deem it appropriate to consider, including matters referred to it by the
University Housing Administration, Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) and/or Student Government
(SG). In addition, the Committee shall make recommendations regarding the interests and concerns of
the residents of university-owned housing.
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Committee Charge
Membership
Responsible University Oﬃcial (RUO)
UTDPP1009
Campus Housing Advisory Committee
Policy Statement
Committee Charge

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1009 Campus Housing Advisory Committee | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1009 1/4

The Committee shall meet at least once each month during the long semester and shall set dates for
its meetings and formulate its own rules of procedure.
The Committee membership shall consist of ﬁfteen (15) voting members living in university-
owned housing. They shall include students from each of the following areas to be appointed
by the President of the University, or the President's designee, from a panel submitted by the
designated units:
a. One (1) student living in university-owned housing who is currently serving on SG nominated by
the Student Government Executive Committee. Preference should be given to the Residential
Student Aﬀairs Chairman or a Residential Student Aﬀairs Committee Member who resides
on campus.
b. One (1) graduate student living in university-owned housing and who are nominated by the GSA.
c. Two (2) peer advisers, one living in the residence halls and one living in the apartments, nominated
by the Director of Residential
d. Three (3) students living in university-owned housing and are in the Residential Housing
Association (RHA), National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH), and the Living Learning
Communities student leadership nominated by the Director of Residential Life.
e. Five (5) freshman students living in university-owned residence hall housing chosen by application
to sit on the committee.
f. Three (3) students living in university-owned apartment housing chosen by application to sit on the
committee .
The President or Vice President of the Student Government, Graduate Student Assembly President or
Vice President, Director of Residential Life, Senior Director of Housing Operations, Dean of
Undergraduate Education or designee, Dean of Graduate Studies or designee, Vice President for
Budget and Finance or designee, Assistant Vice President for Residential Life and the Associate Vice
President for Student Aﬀairs serve as non-voting ex-oﬃcio members.
The term of oﬃce will be for one (1) year, and members will serve from October 1 to September 30.
Members may be reappointed by the President, or the President's designee, for additional terms.
Membership
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1009 Campus Housing Advisory Committee | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1009 2/4

Should a vacancy arise at any time on the Committee, it shall be ﬁlled according to the appropriate
procedures as outlined above.
The Associate Vice President for Student Aﬀairs or designee shall convene the ﬁrst meeting of the
Committee each fall term for the purpose of selecting the Chair and Vice Chair who will be elected by
the voting members. A recording secretary shall be provided by University Housing. The recording
secretary's main duty shall be the compilation of the minutes of each meeting.
The Associate Vice President for Student Aﬀairs shall serve as the RUO for this committee.
Responsible University Official (RUO)
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1009 Campus Housing Advisory Committee | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1009 3/4

Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
CONTACT
10/6/26, 5:55 PM UTDPP1009 Campus Housing Advisory Committee | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1009 4/4
