Home / General Adminis / UTDBP3102
A. Sec. 1 — General Policy Statement
B. Sec. 2 — Applicability and Scope
SHOW LINKS
POLICY SECTIONS
Policy Statement
Contents
Sec. 1 General Policy Statement
Sec. 2 Applicability and Scope
Sec. 3 Reporting Incidents
Sec. 4 Resources and Supportive...
Sec. 5 Filing a Formal...
Sec. 6 The Grievance Process
Sec. 7 Dissemination of Policy...
Sec. 8 Deﬁnitions of Conduct...
Sec. 9 Additional Terms and...
4. Relevant Federal and State...
5. Other Relevant Policies, Procedures,...
UTDBP3102
Sexual Misconduct Policy
Policy Statement
Contents

Menu
The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 1/52

C. Sec. 3 — Reporting Incidents
D. Sec. 4 — Resources and Supportive Measures
E. Sec. 5 — Filing a Formal Complaint and Initiating the Grievance Process
F. Sec. 6 — The Grievance Process
G. Sec. 7 — Dissemination of Policy and Educational Programs
H. Sec. 8 — Deﬁnitions of Conduct Violations under this Policy
I. Sec. 9 — Additional Terms and Deﬁnitions
J. 4. Relevant Federal and State Statutes, and Standards
K. 5. Other Relevant Policies, Procedures, and Forms
The University of Texas at Dallas (the University) is committed to maintaining a learning and working
environment that is free from discrimination based on sex in accordance with Title IX of the Higher
Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in
education programs or activities; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VII), which prohibits
sex discrimination in employment; and the Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act (SaVE Act),
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and Clery Act.
Sexual Misconduct, Retaliation, and other Prohibited Conduct under this Policy will be subject to
disciplinary action. The University will take appropriate action when any individuals or organizations
within its control violate this Policy, including but not limited to, dismissal or separation from the
University. The University encourages individuals to promptly report incidents that could constitute
violations of this Policy to the Title IX Coordinator (as outlined in Section 3.1 of this Policy).
Freedom of speech and principles of academic freedom are central to the mission of institutions of
higher education. Constitutionally protected expression cannot be considered Sexual Misconduct
Sec. 1 General Policy Statement
1.1 Purpose
1.2 Policy
1.3 Free Speech
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 2/52

under this Policy.
This Policy applies to all University administrators, faculty, staﬀ, students, and third parties within the
University’s control, including visitors and applicants for admission or employment. It applies to
conduct that occurs on University owned or controlled premises, in an education program or activity
including University sponsored or supported events, buildings owned or controlled by student
organizations oﬃcially recognized by the University, or oﬀ campus when the conduct potentially
aﬀects a person’s education or employment with the University or potentially poses a risk of harm to
members of the University community. It also applies regardless of the gender, gender identity, or
sexual orientation of the parties.
Prohibited Conduct under this policy includes:
A. Sexual Misconduct: Sex Discrimination; Sexual Harassment; Sexual Assault; Domestic Violence;
Dating Violence; Stalking; Sexual Exploitation; and Other Inappropriate Sexual Conduct; and
B. Non-Sexual Misconduct: Retaliation; Failure to Report for a Responsible Employee; Interference
with the Grievance Process; and False Information and False Complaints.
Violations of Prohibited Conduct under this Policy will be investigated and adjudicated in accordance
with this Policy. The deﬁnitions of Prohibited Conduct are in the Deﬁnitions of Conduct Violations,
Section 8 of this Policy.
Any person may report Sexual Misconduct or Non-Sexual Misconduct, to the Title IX Coordinator.
Individuals are strongly encouraged to report as soon as such conduct is known. Any person may
Sec. 2 Applicability and Scope
2.1 Applicability
2.2 Prohibited Conduct
Sec. 3 Reporting Incidents
3.1 Reporting to the University’s Title IX Coordinator
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 3/52

report an incident, whether or not the person reporting is the person alleged to be the victim of the
incident, and it can be a verbal or written report to the Title IX Coordinator:
Heather Dragoo
Email: TitleIXCoordinator@utdallas.edu
Phone: 972-883-5203
Oﬃce: 972-883-2306
Mailing Address
800 W. Campbell Road AD 3.108
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Physical Address
Administration Building (AD) 3.108
800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Online Report Submission: https://utdallas.caseiq.app/portal
The University has great respect for the privacy and conﬁdentiality of the parties identiﬁed in a report
or Complaint. In the course of a Grievance Process or coordination of any services outlined in this
Policy, the University may only share information as necessary with people who need to know, in
accordance with the federal and state laws. For example, in the Grievance Process, permissible
information sharing may include but is not limited to sharing the identity of the Complainant and
Respondent and other relevant information with the investigators, the parties, witnesses, parties’
advisors, decision-makers, or other relevant individuals—if applicable. The University will take all
reasonable steps to ensure there is no retaliation against the parties or any other participants in the
Grievance Process.
In addition, Responsible Employees who receive information of alleged Sexual Misconduct must
promptly report that information to the Title IX Coordinator, and therefore, cannot withhold a party’s
identity (if known), as outlined in Section 3.3 of this Policy.
A. Parties’ Rights Regarding Conﬁdentiality
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 4/52

Individuals may discuss an incident in strict conﬁdence by using the Conﬁdential Support and
Resources, as outlined in Section 4.2 of this Policy.
Under state law, Complainant’s have the right to submit a written request to the University to not
investigate a matter. The University’s ability to respond and remedy the matter may be limited if the
Complainant doesn’t want the University to proceed with an investigation.
Once a written request has been submitted, the University must inform the Complainant of the
University’s decision whether to investigate. Complainants may submit such written requests to the
Title IX Coordinator (or designee).
In the situations where the University can honor the Complainant’s request to not investigate
allegations of Sexual Misconduct, the Complainant may still pursue other options, such as the
University’s Informal Resolution (IR) Process (if available), Supportive Measures, campus resources,
and/or community-based services as well, but the University will not take any formal action regarding
the Formal Grievance Process at that time.
Depending on the facts and circumstances, the University may be obligated to investigate further,
regardless of a Complainant’s request not to investigate a matter.
In making determinations regarding requests for conﬁdentiality, Complainants’ requests to not
investigate, and/or requests to not disclose identifying information to Respondents, the Title IX
Coordinator (or designee) must deliberately weigh the rights, interests, and safety of the Complainant,
the Respondent, and the campus community.
Factors the University must consider when determining whether to investigate allegations of
misconduct include, but are not limited to:
The Complainant’s request to the University to not investigate the alleged conduct;
The Complainant’s reasonable safety concerns for initiating a Formal Complaint and Formal
Grievance Process;
B. Complainant’s Right to Request Not to Investigate
C. University’s Commitment to Safety
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 5/52

The extent to which the alleged conduct poses a risk of harm to the Complainant and/or the
campus community;
The seriousness and severity of the alleged conduct;
The age and relationship of the parties;
The scope of the alleged conduct by the Respondent, including other reports of alleged Sexual
Misconduct received by the University, pattern-based allegations, alleged ongoing misconduct, or
alleged conduct that impacted multiple individuals;
The availability of relevant evidence to assist a decision-maker in determining whether alleged
conduct occurred;
The status of the Complainant and/or Respondent within the University and/or whether either
party is still a member of the campus community;
Whether the University could reasonably prevent the conduct’s recurrence without initiating a
Formal Complaint and Formal Grievance Process; and
Any other factors the University determines relevant, depending on the facts and circumstances
known at that time.
Examples of risks of harm, seriousness and/or severity of allegations include, but are not limited to
evidence of: (a) pattern-based behavior, (b) predatory behavior, (c) threats of force/violence, (d) use of
force/violence, (e) use of weapons, and/or (f) abuse of minors.
In addition, the University will also consider whether a Complainant has interest or intention to
participate in the Grievance Process, the eﬀect that non-participation may have on the availability of
suﬃcient evidence, and University’s ability to pursue the Formal Grievance Process fairly and
eﬀectively under these circumstances.
If relevant factors present an imminent and serious threat to the health or safety of the Complainant
or the campus community, or the alleged conduct prevents the University from ensuring equal access
to the University’s education program or activity, then the Title IX Coordinator may initiate a Formal
Complaint (as outlined in Section 5.1(C) in the Policy). Under these circumstances, the
Complainant must be notiﬁed prior to the Title IX Coordinator initiating the Grievance Process
to address the Complainant’s reasonable safety concerns, if any, and oﬀer the Complainant with
Supportive Measures.
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 6/52

Any Reports received by the Title IX Coordinator will be documented and kept for seven years as
required by law. The documentation and case management of reports will follow the Documentation
provisions under Section 6.5 of this Policy.
Individuals may make an anonymous report by telephone, in writing or electronically
(https://utdallas.caseiq.app/portal) with the Title IX Oﬃce. A person’s decision to remain anonymous,
however, may greatly limit the University’s ability to stop the alleged conduct, collect evidence, or
take action against parties accused of violating this Policy.
Anonymous reporting is not an option for fulﬁlling Responsible Employee Reporting Obligations, as
outlined in Section 3.3 of this Policy.
Reporting Sexual Misconduct. Responsible Employees are required to report known incidents and
information of Sexual Misconduct promptly to the Title IX Coordinator, and must include whether a
Complainant has expressed a desire for conﬁdentiality in reporting the incident. All employees are
Responsible Employees except Conﬁdential Employees or police oﬃcers when a victim uses a
pseudonym form (as outlined in Section 4.1(B) of this Policy).
For additional information, see Failure to Report for a Responsible Employee in Section 8 of
this Policy.
Individuals may also ﬁle a police report with The University of Texas at Dallas Police Department at
972-883-2222 (non-emergency) or 911 (emergency) or to the City of Richardson Police Department
972-744-4800 (non-emergency) or 911 (emergency) or to other local law enforcement authorities.
The Title IX Oﬃce can help individuals contact these law enforcement agencies. Employees and
students with protective or restraining orders relevant to a complaint are encouraged to provide a
copy to the University Police Department.
D. Documentation and Record Retention of Reports
3.2 Anonymous Reporting
3.3 Responsible Employee Reporting Obligations
3.4 Reporting to Law Enforcement
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 7/52

Reporting to law enforcement and initiating criminal charges is a separate process from submitting a
report or ﬁling a Formal Complaint with the University’s Title IX Oﬃce. Further, criminal
investigations and proceedings are a separate process from the University’s Grievance Process under
this Policy.
You may also contact the following external agencies:
For students:
Oﬃce for Civil Rights
U.S. Department of Education
400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20202-1100
Toll-free Hotline: 800-421-3481
TDD: 877-521-2172
FAX: 202-453-6012
Email: OCR@ed.gov
Website: http://www.ed.gov/ocr
Oﬃce for Civil Rights
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Room 509F, HHH Building
Washington, D.C. 20201
Toll-free Hotline: 800-368-1019
TDD: 800-537-7697
Email: OCRmail@hhs.gov
Website: http://www.hhs.gov/ocr
For employees:
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Dallas District Oﬃce
3.5 Reporting to Outside Agencies
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 8/52

207 S. Houston Street, 3rd Floor
Dallas, TX 75202
Phone: 972-918-3580
TTY: 800-669-6820
FAX: 214-253-2720
Website: https://www.eeoc.gov/ﬁeld-oﬃce/dallas/location
Texas Workforce Commission
Civil Rights Division
101 E. 15th Street, Room 144-T
Austin, TX 78778-0001
Phone: 800-628-5115
Website: https://www.twc.texas.gov/programs/civil-rights
To encourage reporting of Sexual Misconduct and participation in the Grievance Process, the
University will grant immunity for minor policy violations, such as underage possession or
consumption of alcohol or use of illicit drugs when related to the alleged Prohibited Conduct under
this Policy.
Immunity from student and/or employee disciplinary action will be available to a person who acts in
good faith in reporting an incident, ﬁling a Formal Complaint, or participating in the Grievance
Process. This immunity does not extend to the person’s own violations of this Policy.
RESOURCE CONTACT INFORMATION
UT Dallas Police Department 972-883-2222 or 911
3.6 Immunity
Sec. 4 Resources and Supportive Measures
4.1 Immediate Assistance
Student Counseling Center, SSB 4.600
972-883-2575
After hours helpline: 972-UTD-TALK
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 9/52

RESOURCE CONTACT INFORMATION
Student Health Center, SSB 4.700 972-883-2747
972-883-2747 (After Hours Nurse Line)
The Turning Point (Plano, TX) 800-886-7273 (24-hour Crisis Hotline)
Individuals who experience sexual violence are encouraged to seek immediate medical care. Also,
preserving DNA evidence can be key to identifying the perpetrator in a sexual violence case. Victims
can undergo a medical exam to preserve physical evidence with or without police involvement. If
possible, this should be done immediately. If an immediate medical exam is not possible, individuals
who have experienced a sexual assault may have a Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) performed
by a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) within 5 days (120 hours) of the incident. With the
examinee’s consent, the physical evidence collected during this medical exam can be used in a
criminal investigation; however, a person may undergo a SAFE even without contacting, or intending
to contact, the police. To undergo a SAFE, go directly to the emergency department of Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital Plano or Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas or the nearest hospital that
provides SAFE services. Additionally, UT Dallas students and staﬀ may obtain a SAFE exam at the
Student Health Center during normal business hours at no cost. For more information, contact the
Student Health Center at 972-883-2747 or see the Student Health Center website.
For more information about the SAFE, see the Attorney General of Texas Sexual Assault Exams
website. The reasonable costs associated with the forensic portion of a SAFE, the evidence collection
kit, and other prescribed medical care related to the sexual assault and provided to the victim during
the 30-day period following the SAFE should be covered for the victim by the health care provider or
reimbursed to the victim, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure.
Individuals who have experienced or witnessed sexual misconduct are encouraged to make a report
to the police. The police may, in turn, share the report with the Title IX Oﬃce, with the exception of
when a pseudonym form is used under the Code of Criminal Procedure for incidents of sexual assault,
stalking, family violence, and human traﬃcking. In those instances, where a pseudonym form is used,
Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (Dallas, TX)
972-641-7273 (24-hour Crisis Hotline)
A. Healthcare
B. Police Assistance
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 10/52

the police will report the incident to the Title IX Coordinator but will redact the name and any
identifying information about the victim.
A police department’s geographic jurisdiction depends on where the incident occurred. Thus, if the
incident occurred on the University campus, the individual may ﬁle a report with the UT Dallas Police
Department by calling 972-883-2222 or in person at UT Dallas Police Department headquarters at
Police (PD), 800 W. Campbell Road, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021, even if time has passed since the
incident occurred.
The UT Dallas Police Department can also assist with applying for any protective orders. Reporting an
incident to law enforcement does not mean the case will automatically go to criminal trial or go
through a Grievance Process. If the University police are called, a police oﬃcer will be sent to the
scene to take a detailed statement. A police oﬃcer or victim services coordinator may also provide
the individual with a ride to the hospital. A report may also be ﬁled with the University police even if
the assailant was not a University student or employee. If the incident occurred in the City of
Richardson, but oﬀ campus, a report may be ﬁled with the Richardson Police Department, even if
time has passed since the incident occurred. If a report is made to the police, a police oﬃcer will
usually be dispatched to the location to take a written report. A sexual assault victim will also have an
opportunity to have a crime victim liaison, counselor, advocate, or police oﬃcer with specialized
training be present with the victim during police investigative interviews.
Individuals who experience Sexual Misconduct are strongly encouraged to seek counseling or medical
and psychological care even if the person does not plan to request a SAFE or report the incident to
the police. Individuals may be prescribed medications to prevent sexually transmitted infections
and/or pregnancy even if the police are not contacted or if a SAFE is not performed. Similarly, other
individuals aﬀected by an incident are encouraged to seek counseling or psychological care.
Individuals may receive medical care at the University Health Services (for students only), at a local
emergency room, or by a private physician. Individuals may also be provided with psychological
support by the University Counseling and Psychological Services (students), Employee Assistance
(employees), a referral through the Employee Assistance Program, or a care provider of his or
her choice.
C. Counseling and Other Services
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 11/52

Students desiring counseling should contact:
Student Counseling Center
SSB 4.600
972-883-2575
After hours helpline: 972-UTD-TALK
Faculty and staﬀ should contact:
AllOne Health Employee Assistance Program Services
Helpline: 800-451-1834
Email: eap-do@allonehealth.com
Login/Register for Account:
Company code: utdallas
Email address – personal or work
Password – create a personal password
Students may discuss an incident with Conﬁdential Employees or an oﬀ-campus resource (e.g. rape
crisis center, doctor, psychologist, clergyperson, etc.) without concern that the person’s identity will
be reported to the Title IX Coordinator.
Employees may also seek assistance from the Employee Assistance Program, their own personal
health care provider, the clergyperson of their choice, or an oﬀ-campus rape crisis resource without
concern that the person’s identity will be reported to the Title IX Coordinator.
The University and community resources that provide conﬁdential services are:
RESOURCE CONTACT INFORMATION
Student Counseling Center, SSB 4.600 972-883-2575
After hours helpline: 972-UTD-TALK
4.2 Conﬁdential Support and Resources
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 12/52

RESOURCE CONTACT INFORMATION
Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (Dallas, TX) 972-641-7273 (24-hour Crisis Hotline)
Additional campus and community resources are available on the Support Services & Resources page.
The University will oﬀer reasonably available individualized services, without any fee or charge, to the
parties involved in a reported incident of Sexual Misconduct with or without the ﬁling of a Formal
Complaint, when applicable.
Supportive Measures may include but are not limited to housing reassignment, counseling, extensions
of deadlines or other course-related adjustments, modiﬁcations of work or class schedules,
withdrawal from or retake of a class without penalty, campus escort services, mutual restrictions on
contact between the parties, change in work or housing locations, leaves of absences (e.g. academic
withdrawal), increased security and monitoring of certain areas of campus, or other similar measures
tailored to the individualized needs of the parties for a reasonably appropriate or relevant timeframe.
Supportive Measures are non-disciplinary and non-punitive measures that do not unreasonably
burden the other party. Supportive Measures can be utilized and modiﬁed throughout the Grievance
Process (if applicable) and continue after the conclusion of the Grievance Process, depending on
the circumstances.
Any disciplinary or punitive measures may only be implemented following the conclusion of the
Grievance Process, unless an emergency removal (as outlined in Section 5.7(A)) is appropriate.
Student Health Center, SSB 4.700
972-883-2747
972-883-2747 (After Hours Nurse Line)
The Turning Point (Plano, TX)
800-886-7273 (24-hour Crisis Hotline)
4.3 Supportive Measures
A. Examples
B. Scope
C. Conﬁdentiality
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 13/52

The University will maintain the conﬁdentiality of Supportive Measures provided to the parties, to the
extent that maintaining such conﬁdentiality does not impair the ability of the University to provide
the Supportive Measures. The coordination of Supportive Measures will follow the Conﬁdentiality
provisions under Section 3.1(A) of this Policy.
The University will provide speciﬁc support and coordination to pregnant students and employees to
prevent sex- or pregnancy-based discrimination and ensure equal access to the University’s
education program or activities and work environments (in accordance with the University’s Student
Pregnancy and Parenting Nondiscrimination Policy (UTDBP3121) and Policy for Reasonable
Accommodations (UTDBP3100)).
To request more information on available services, contact:
For students:
Oﬃce of Institutional Compliance (includes Title IX)
Administration Building (AD) 3.108
TitleIXCoordinator@utdallas.edu
Phone: 972-883-2306
Pregnant & Parenting Resources
For employees:
Oﬃce of Human Resources – Beneﬁts and Wellness
EmployeeADA@utdallas.edu
Phone: 972-883-2221
Pregnant & Parenting Resources
Student Pregnancy and Parenting Nondiscrimination Policy and Policy for
Reasonable Accommodations.
4.4 Pregnancy and Related Conditions
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 14/52

To ﬁle a Formal Complaint and thereby initiate the Grievance Process, the Complainant must submit
the complaint in writing to the Title IX Coordinator, and in doing so, cannot remain anonymous in the
Formal Complaint.
The Formal Complaint should include all known details of the alleged conduct that is the subject of
the complaint, including the following:
Complainant’s name and contact information;
Respondent’s name;
Detailed description of the alleged conduct or event that is the basis of the alleged violation under
this Policy;
Date(s), time(s), and location(s) of the alleged occurrence(s);
Names of any witnesses to the alleged occurrence(s); and
The resolution the Complainant is seeking (if any).
The Complainant may submit any relevant documents or information to the Formal Complaint at the
time the Formal Complaint is ﬁled or in the course of the investigation.
In addition to the Complainant, the University’s Title IX Coordinator also has authority to ﬁle a Formal
Complaint, and thereby initiate the Formal Grievance Process.
When the Title IX Coordinator ﬁles a Formal Complaint and initiates a Formal Grievance Process, the
Title IX Coordinator will not replace the Complainant in the Formal Complaint ﬁled. Instead, the
Complainant (as deﬁned in this Policy) will remain the Complainant in the Formal Complaint and
Sec. 5 Filing a Formal Complaint and Initiating the
Grievance Process
5.1 Filing a Formal Complaint
A. Formal Complaint Details
B. Additional Documents
C. Eligibility for Filing a Formal Complaint
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 15/52

Grievance Process and be given all of the same rights and options as a Complainant that ﬁled the
Formal Complaint themselves.
The University may consolidate Formal Complaints for the following reasons:
When the Formal Complaint is against more than one Respondent;
When the Formal Complaint is by more than one Complainant against one or more
Respondents; or
When the alleged conduct arises out of the same facts or circumstances.
When one or more consolidated Formal Complaints involve Sexual Misconduct, then the University
will apply the same Grievance Process for all of the consolidated Formal Complaints.
The University will not, as a matter of course, wait for the outcome of a concurrent criminal or civil
justice proceedings to take action on a Formal Complaint in a University Grievance Process. The
University has an independent duty to respond to Formal Complaints of Sexual Misconduct and
other Prohibited Conduct under this Policy. On a case-by-case basis, however, the University
may reasonably delay the Grievance Process for a brief period due to concurrent criminal or
civil proceedings.
After receiving a Formal Complaint, the Title IX Oﬃce will provide a written notice to the parties of
the Formal Complaint and available University resources and assistance. The written notice of the
Formal Complaint will include the following:
A notice of the Grievance Process and resolution options, as outlined in this Policy;
The Formal Complaint allegations that potentially constitute Prohibited Conduct under this Policy,
including suﬃcient details about the alleged conduct, including the identity of the parties, if known,
5.2 Consolidation of Formal Complaint Allegations
5.3 Concurrent Criminal or Civil Proceedings
5.4 Written Notice of the Formal Complaint and Allegations, and
Notiﬁcation of University Oﬃces Oﬀering Assistance
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 16/52

and the date(s), time(s), and location(s) of alleged conduct known by the University at the time of
the Formal Complaint;
List the potential policy violations being investigated, or otherwise applicable under the
Grievance Process;
The Respondent is presumed not responsible for the alleged conduct and that the determination
regarding responsibility will be made at the conclusion of the Grievance Process;
Both parties may have an advisor of their choice, who may be, but is not required to be, an
attorney, and may inspect and review all evidence;
The parties may review evidence gathered as part of any investigation;
Knowingly making false statements or knowingly submitting false information during the Grievance
Process is prohibited and subject to disciplinary action; and
Any other relevant information for the written notice.
The University will provide written notice to a party or witness whose participation is invited or
expected, which will include the date, time, location, participants, and purpose of any meetings,
investigative interviews, or other proceedings in the Grievance Process.
The parties and witnesses may have an advisor of their choice at any meetings, investigative
interviews, or other proceedings in the Grievance Process. Advisors are not permitted to actively
participate in the Grievance Process, except for asking relevant questions of the parties and
witnesses at a Live Hearing under Section 6.1(C).
If a Complainant or Respondent does not have an advisor for the hearing, the University will provide
one for that party without charge for the purpose of questioning participants at a hearing under
Section 6.1(C).
Once a Formal Complaint is ﬁled, the University may determine if and what interim measures are
necessary, depending on the facts and circumstances of a matter applicable to this Policy. The Title IX
5.5 Written Notice of Events
5.6 Advisor of Choice
5.7 Interim Measures
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 17/52

Coordinator (or University oﬃcial/designee) will approve all interim measures under this Policy.
Interim measures may be kept in place through the conclusion of a Grievance Process. An interim
measure, for the purpose of this Policy, is either (a) Emergency Removal for Students, or (b)
Administrative Leave or Alternative Work Assignment for Employees.
A student Respondent may be removed from the University’s education program or activity on an
emergency basis if, after an individualized safety and risk analysis, it is determined that such a
removal is justiﬁed because the Respondent poses an immediate threat to the physical health or
safety of an individual arising from the allegations of Sexual Misconduct.
An emergency removal may include, but is not limited to, temporarily suspending the right of the
Respondent to: (a) access speciﬁc campus areas or buildings; (b) access speciﬁc programs (e.g.
athletics/intramural activities, student organizations, departments); (c) be on campus entirely and
accessing classes in person; among others.
At the discretion of the University, the Respondent may be permitted to pursue alternative
coursework options to ensure as minimal academic impact as possible.
Under these circumstances, the Respondent will be notiﬁed in writing of the emergency removal from
the University’s education program or activity, and the Respondent will have an opportunity to
immediately challenge the decision following the emergency removal.
An employee Respondent may be placed on administrative leave (e.g. investigative leave) or an
alternative work assignment, in accordance with the University’s policy and procedures, during the
pendency of the Grievance Process, as outlined in this Policy.
The ﬁling of a Formal Complaint under this Policy will not stop or delay any action unrelated to the
Formal Complaint, including: (a) any evaluation or disciplinary action relating to a Complainant who is
not performing up to acceptable standards or who has violated University rules or policies; (b) any
A. Emergency Removal for Students
B. Administrative Leave or Alternative Work Assignment for Employees
5.8 No Eﬀect on Pending Personnel or Academic Actions Unrelated to the
Formal Complaint
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 18/52

evaluation or grading of students participating in a class, or the ability of a student to add/drop a
class, change academic programs, or receive ﬁnancial reimbursement for a class; or (c) any job-related
functions of a University employee. Nothing in this section shall limit the University’s ability to take
interim action or execute an emergency removal.
All Formal Grievance Processes will use the preponderance of the evidence standard, which means
(for the purposes of this Policy) the greater weight of the credible evidence. This standard is satisﬁed
when the action is deemed more likely to have occurred than not.
By law, it is presumed that the Respondent is not responsible for the alleged conduct unless that
determination regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the Formal Grievance Process.
A. Formal Grievance Process, as outlined in Section 6.1 of this Policy.
B. Alternative Formal Grievance Process for Students, as outlined in 6.2 of this Policy.
C. Informal Resolution (IR), as outlined in Section 6.3 of this Policy.
D. Formal Complaint Dismissal, as outlined in Section 6.4 of this Policy.
The Title IX Coordinator is the senior University administrator who oversees the University’s
compliance with Title IX. The Title IX Coordinator is responsible for administrative response to
reports and Formal Complaints of Sexual Misconduct, Retaliation, and other Prohibited Conduct
under this Policy. The Title IX Coordinator is available to discuss the Grievance Process, coordinate
Supportive Measures, explain University policies and procedures, and provide education on relevant
issues. The Title IX Coordinator may designate one or more Deputy Title IX Coordinators to facilitate
these responsibilities.
Any member of the University community may contact the Title IX Coordinator with questions.
5.9 Standard of Evidence and Presumption of Not Responsible
5.10 Resolution Options of the Grievance Process
5.11 Key Roles in the Grievance Process
A. Title IX Coordinator
B. Investigator(s)
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 19/52

The University will ensure that Formal Complaints are properly investigated under this Policy by
investigators assigned to the Formal Complaint. The investigators are neutral and impartial, and seek
to gather relevant evidence and interview relevant witnesses for the investigation. The investigators
are responsible for completing an investigation report at the conclusion of the investigation. The
Deputy Title IX Coordinators may supervise and advise the Title IX investigators when conducting
investigations and update the Title IX Coordinator as necessary to ensure compliance with Title IX.
An informal resolution facilitator is responsible for assisting the parties with navigating the Informal
Resolution (IR) process. The facilitators are neutral and impartial, and seek to facilitate a mutually
agreeable outcome with the parties that appropriately resolves an alleged policy violation. The
Deputy Title IX Coordinators may supervise and advise the informal resolution facilitators when
conducting the IR process and update the Title IX Coordinator as necessary to ensure compliance
with Title IX.
The hearing oﬃcer is responsible for conducting the live hearing in an orderly manner, controlling the
conduct of all participants and attendees of the hearing, and rendering a written determination
regarding responsibility of the Respondent’s alleged conduct charges, based on the preponderance of
the credible evidence, and in an impartial, neutral, and objective manner.
The University representative is responsible for presenting relevant evidence regarding the Formal
Complaint at a live hearing. The University representative can present information and witnesses,
question witnesses, and provide opening and closing statements at the hearing. The University
representative is neutral, impartial, and independent of the investigation and adjudication of the
Formal Complaint.
An appellate oﬃcer may be responsible for an appeal of (a) a Formal Complaint Dismissal; (b) a
determination regarding a Respondent’s responsibility following a Live Hearing; or (c) sanctions only
within a Student’s Administrative Disposition. An appellate oﬃcer must not have taken part in any
C. Informal Resolution Facilitator(s)
D. Hearing Oﬃcer or Hearing Panel
E. University Representative at the Hearing
F. Appellate Oﬃcer
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 20/52

other part of the Grievance Process for the same matter, and must render a ﬁnal decision on the
appeal in an impartial, neutral, and objective manner.
The Formal Grievance Process will apply in the following ways:
A. Students. The Formal Grievance Process applies in instances where the Respondent is a student
(including student employees) at the University at the time of the alleged conduct and where the
alleged conduct includes Sexual Harassment (as a possible policy violation under this Policy).
B. Employees. The Formal Grievance Process only applies for employees where all of the following
conditions are met:
1. The Respondent is an employee at the University at the time of the alleged conduct;
2. The conduct alleged includes Sexual Harassment (as a possible policy violation under this Policy);
3. The alleged conduct occurred against a person in the United States; and
4. Where the Complainant was participating or attempting to participate in an education program
or activity at the University. This element is met if the conduct occurred in any of the following:
on any University property; during any University activity; in a building owned or controlled by a
student organization that is oﬃcially recognized by the University; or in instances where the
University exercised substantial control over the Respondent and the context in which the
alleged conduct occurred.
In all other circumstances, allegations of Sexual Misconduct (or other allegations of Prohibited
Conduct in this Policy, including Failure to Report for Responsible Employees) will be handled in
accordance with the Nondiscrimination Policy (UTDBP3090).
In circumstances where an employee is alleged of Sexual Harassment and another policy violation
of any kind, the University has discretion as to whether the Non-Sexual Harassment allegations will
be subject to the Formal Grievance Process (outlined in this Policy) or another institutional
grievance process.
C. Other Aﬃliations. For Formal Complaints against third parties, such as contracted workers,
volunteers, or visitors, the University will apply the analysis in Section 6.1(A)(2) with regard to
Sec. 6 The Grievance Process
6.1 Formal Grievance Process
A. Application
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 21/52

employees and may apply other institutional policies to those Respondents if the Formal Grievance
Process (outlined in this Policy) does not apply.
After a written notice of the Formal Complaint and allegations has been provided to the parties, the
investigation will include the following:
A. Complainant Intake. The investigator(s) will attempt to interview the Complainant to gather
relevant evidence regarding the Formal Complaint allegations.
B. Respondent’s Opportunity to Respond. The Respondent will be provided a reasonable time to
respond to the Formal Complaint allegations.
C. Identify Witnesses. The parties may identify relevant witnesses to the Formal Complaint
allegations and who can provide relevant evidence for the investigation.
D. Party and Witness Interviews. The investigator(s) will attempt to interview relevant and available
witnesses. Neither the Complainant nor the Respondent will normally attend these interviews;
however, if either one is permitted to attend, the other shall have the same right.
E. Asking Questions. The parties may submit relevant questions to the investigator(s) that they would
like asked of the other party or any known potential witnesses.
F. Evidence and Deadlines. The parties may present any information, statements, and evidence that is
relevant to the Formal Complaint allegations. The parties will be notiﬁed of deadlines to submit
evidence in a reasonable timeframe.
1. Relevant Evidence. Evidence is relevant when it is:
Directly related to the alleged conduct at issue in the Formal Complaint and within the scope
of the investigation as part of the Formal Grievance Process under this Policy; and
May aid in showing whether or not the alleged conduct occurred.
2. Privileged Information and Records Excluded. No person will be required to disclose information
protected by a legally recognized privilege. The hearing oﬃcer must not allow evidence or rely
upon any questions or evidence that may require or seek disclosure of such information, unless
the person holding the privilege has voluntarily waived the privilege. This includes information
protected by the attorney-client privilege and records made or maintained by a physician,
psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional in connection with the
provision of the person’s treatment.
B. Investigation of the Formal Complaint – Gathering of Evidence
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 22/52

3. Prior Sexual History Excluded. A Complainant’s sexual predisposition or prior sexual behavior are
not relevant except where questions and evidence about a Complainant’s prior sexual behavior
are oﬀered to prove that someone other than the Respondent committed the alleged conduct
charged by the Complainant or if the questions or evidence concern speciﬁc incidents of the
Complainant’s prior sexual behavior with the Respondent and are oﬀered to prove the
Complainant’s consent of the alleged conduct.
G. Access to Evidence. Prior to the completion of the investigation report, the investigators will
provide access to all evidence obtained (whether relevant or not) as part of the investigation to
both parties (and the party’s advisor, if any, upon a party’s signed information release for their
advisor of choice). Both parties will have 10 days to inspect, review, and respond to the evidence.
All responses to the evidence must be submitted by the party in writing to the investigator.
Advisors are not permitted to submit written responses to the evidence on their own or on behalf
of the party they are advising. The investigators will consider all timely responses submitted by
the parties.
H. Completed Investigation Report. The completed investigation report will: (a) outline each of the
allegations that potentially constitutes Prohibited Conduct under this Policy, (b) provide the
timeline (e.g. procedural steps) of the investigation, and (c) fairly summarize relevant evidence,
participant statements, and responses to questions. The investigator will provide a completed
investigation report concurrently to both parties (and each party’s advisor, if any, upon a party’s
signed information release for their advisor of choice) at least 10 days prior to the date of the
scheduled hearing to review and provide a written response at the hearing. A copy of the
completed investigation report will be issued to the Title IX Coordinator, the Hearing Oﬃcer, and
the University Representative assigned for the hearing.
Absent a Formal Complaint dismissal or the parties’ decision to reach an Informal Resolution (IR)
agreement (if applicable), the University will provide a live hearing for all Formal Complaints subject to
the Formal Grievance Process in this Policy.
A. Written Notice of the Hearing. The University will provide at least 10 days written notice of the
hearing to the parties (and the parties’ advisors, if any, upon a party’s signed information release for
their advisor of choice), including the date, time, location, names of all known participants of the
hearing (including the Hearing Oﬃcer, the University Representative, all parties and relevant
witnesses), purpose of the hearing, a statement of the alleged conduct charges, and a summary
C. Live Hearing – Determination of Responsibility
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 23/52

statement of the relevant evidence gathered. The hearing notice may also provide a deadline by
which the University representative and the parties have an opportunity to disclose (1) the names
of any witnesses they intend to call to testify at the hearing, if any, and (2) a copy of any documents
they intend to use as exhibits at the hearing, not already included in the investigation report, if any.
B. Challenges to the Hearing Oﬃcer. Either party may challenge the fairness, impartiality or
objectivity of a Hearing Oﬃcer. The challenge must be submitted in writing to the Hearing Oﬃcer
through the oﬃce coordinating the hearing within 4 days after notice of the identity of the Hearing
Oﬃcer and must state the reasons for the challenge. The Hearing Oﬃcer will be the sole judge of
whether he or she can serve with fairness, impartiality, and objectivity. If the Hearing Oﬃcer
recuses themselves, an alternative hearing oﬃcer will be assigned in accordance with the
institution’s procedures.
C. Access to Evidence. Both parties (and the party’s advisor, if any, upon a party’s signed information
release for their advisor of choice) will have access to all evidence from the investigation, including
a copy of the completed investigation report, as outlined in Section 6.1(B)(8) in this Policy.
D. Separate Rooms and Virtual Participation. At the request of either party, the University will
provide the hearing to occur with the parties located in separate rooms with technology enabling
the Hearing Oﬃcer and the parties to simultaneously see and hear the participants answering
questions. Participants may appear at the hearing virtually and are not required to be physically
present at the same physical location of the hearing. The institution may choose to conduct a
hearing virtually.
E. Decorum. To promote civility, respect, and participation in hearings, the rules of decorum will be
determined and conducted under the authority of the Hearing Oﬃcer. The rules apply equally to all
hearing participants and attendees. It is expected that all participants and attendees will act in a
respectful manner at the hearing. Failure to comply with the rules of decorum may result in its own
disciplinary action.
Prohibited conduct at the hearing includes but is not limited to:
Language or behavior that unreasonably interferes with one’s participation in the hearing;
Using gratuitous abusive language (e.g. name-calling, insults) toward individuals in the hearing;
Using gratuitous profanity (e.g. swear words) in the hearing not relevant to the facts;
Interrupting or talking over other participants in the hearing;
Engaging in noisy outbursts or side conversation that unreasonably delays or interrupts the
hearing (Note: Participants may request a break, as needed);
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 24/52

Acting in a manner solely to harass, humiliate, or embarrass an individual in the hearing; or
Physically invading an individual’s personal space at the hearing.
F. Opening and Closing Statements. The University Representative and the parties may make
opening and closing statements at the hearing. The Hearing Oﬃcer may impose time limits for
opening and closing statements, which would apply equally to the University Representative and
the parties.
G. Evidence and Exhibits. The investigation report and all exhibits are automatically part of the
hearing record and may be considered by the Hearing Oﬃcer unless the Hearing Oﬃcer rules
otherwise. The provisions in Section 6.1(B)(6) regarding Relevant Evidence, Privileged Information
and Records Excluded, and Prior Sexual History Excluded apply for the hearing and the
determination regarding responsibility of the Respondent’s alleged conduct charges.
H. Procedure for Questioning Participants. The Hearing Oﬃcer may, at the hearing oﬃcer’s
discretion, ask relevant questions during the hearing of any party or witness and may be the ﬁrst
person to ask questions of any party or witness. The parties will not be permitted to personally ask
questions of the other party or any witnesses that participate in the hearing. Instead, the parties’
advisors and the University Representative may ask relevant questions and follow-up questions of
the parties and witnesses that participate in the hearing, including questions that challenge
credibility. Each advisor can ask relevant questions directly, orally, and in real time at the hearing.
All questions posed by anyone other than the Hearing Oﬃcer must be deemed relevant by the
Hearing Oﬃcer before a party or witness answers.
When the Hearing Oﬃcer deems a question as unclear, the Hearing Oﬃcer may ask the
questioner to clarify or revise the question before ruling as to whether the question is relevant
for answering.
Irrelevant questions will be excluded, and the Hearing Oﬃcer will state the reason such question
is irrelevant.
When a party or witness is absent from the hearing or does not respond to relevant questions
during the hearing, the Hearing Oﬃcer must not draw an inference about whether the alleged
conduct occurred based solely on the person’s absence or non-response to such questions.
I. Hearing Oﬃcer Determination. The hearing oﬃcer will issue a written determination, which must
include the following:
Outline each of the Formal Complaint allegations that potentially constitutes Prohibited Conduct
under this Policy;
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 25/52

A description of all of the procedural steps of the Formal Grievance Process under this Policy
(from receipt of a Formal Complaint to the determination regarding responsibility of the
Respondent, including any notiﬁcations of the parties, interviews with parties and witnesses, site
visits, methods used to gather other evidence, and hearings held);
Evaluate the relevant evidence;
Assess credibility of the relevant evidence from the parties and witnesses (if in dispute to the
Formal Complaint allegations);
Include the ﬁnding(s) or no ﬁnding(s) of policy violations for each applicable allegation and the
related rationale for the determination as to whether the Respondent is responsible for each
allegation, based on the preponderance of the credible evidence;
Outline the disciplinary sanctions, if applicable;
Whether additional remedies designed to restore or preserve equal access to the education
program or activity will be provided to the Complainant; and
The University’s procedures and permissible bases for the parties to appeal, if applicable.
The hearing oﬃcer will send a copy of the written determination concurrently to the parties within
21 days from when the hearing concludes, in addition to the Dean (for student Respondents) or
appropriate administrator (for employee Respondents), and the Title IX Coordinator.
J. Recordings. The hearing will be recorded in audio or audiovisual format and may be transcribed at
the discretion of the University. The recording or transcript, if applicable, will be available for the
parties to inspect and review, upon request.
K. Accommodations. Participants at the hearing may request reasonable accommodations through
the University’s ADA Coordinator (or designee) in advance of the hearing. Requests for reasonable
accommodations at the hearing must be submitted no later than 7 days prior to the scheduled
hearing date. For more information about reasonable accommodations, see the University’s Policy
for Reasonable Accommodations (UTDBP3100).
The following sanctions and remedies may be considered by the Hearing Oﬃcer in accordance with
this Policy:
A. Possible Sanctions and Remedies for Student Respondents.
Educational training;
D. Sanctions and Remedies
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 26/52

No shared classes or extra-curricular activities;
Disciplinary probation;
Withholding of grades, oﬃcial transcript, and/or degree;
Bar against readmission, bar against enrollment, drop from one or more classes, and/or
withdrawal from the University;
Suspension of rights and privileges, including but not limited to participation in athletic or
extracurricular activities;
Denial of degree;
Suspension from the University for a speciﬁc period of time. Suspension is noted on the
academic transcript with the term “Disciplinary Suspension.” The notation can be removed upon
the request of the student in accordance with the University’s procedures when all conditions of
the suspension are met;
Expulsion (permanent separation from the University). Expulsion creates a permanent notation
on the student’s academic transcript;
Revocation of degree and withdrawal of diploma; and/or
Other sanction(s) or remedies as deemed appropriate under the circumstances.
B. Possible Sanctions and Remedies for Employee Respondents.
Employment probation;
Job demotion or reassignment;
Suspension with or without pay for a speciﬁc period of time;
Dismissal or termination;
Ineligible for rehire; and/or
Other sanction(s) or remedies as deemed appropriate under the circumstances.
Either party may appeal in writing a Hearing Oﬃcer’s determination regarding a Respondent’s
responsibility under the Grievance Process in this Policy within 10 days of notiﬁcation of such a
determination on the basis of:
A procedural irregularity that aﬀected the outcome of the matter;
E. Appeals
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 27/52

There is new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the determination regarding
responsibility or dismissal was made that could aﬀect the outcome of the matter; or
The Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), or hearing oﬃcer had a conﬂict of interest or bias for or
against the parties (generally, or speciﬁcally in this matter) that aﬀected the outcome of the matter.
If an appeal hasn’t been ﬁled by the appeal deadline, then once the deadline expires, the
determination regarding responsibility is ﬁnal and it concludes the Formal Grievance Process for
the matter.
Note on Administrative Dispositions: When a Respondent and/or Complainant appeal the sanctions
and remedies outlined in a student’s administrative disposition, a basis for appeal (noted below) is not
required. However, the remaining Appeal steps still apply.
A. Basis for Appeal. For the appeal of a determination regarding responsibility to be considered, the
basis for ﬁling an appeal and supporting evidence (if applicable) must be included. A party may
appeal the determination regarding responsibility on the following bases:
A procedural irregularity that aﬀected the outcome of the matter;
There is new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the determination
regarding responsibility was made that could aﬀect the outcome of the matter; or
The Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), or Hearing Oﬃcer had a conﬂict of interest or bias
for or against the parties (generally, or speciﬁcally in this matter) that aﬀected the outcome of
the matter.
B. Notice of Appeal Filed. The applicable parties will be notiﬁed in writing when an appeal is ﬁled. The
appeal procedures will apply equally for both parties.
C. Opportunity to Respond. When applicable, the non-appealing party and University will have 7 days
from the notiﬁcation of an appeal to submit a written statement responding to the appeal.
D. Final Determination Regarding Responsibility or Final Sanctions of Respondent. Before rendering
a decision on a ﬁnal determination (or on ﬁnal sanctions and remedies for a student’s
administrative disposition), the Appellate Oﬃcer will consider all relevant evidence regarding the
determination and its appeal. The Appellate Oﬃcer will release a written decision concurrently
to the parties within 21 days from the date the appeal was ﬁled, with one of the following
ﬁnal determinations:
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 28/52

Aﬃrm the Hearing Oﬃcer’s determination regarding the Respondent’s responsibility and aﬃrm
the disciplinary sanctions and remedies, if applicable;
Aﬃrm the Hearing Oﬃcer’s determination regarding the Respondent’s responsibility and amend
the disciplinary sanctions and remedies, if applicable;
Reverse the Hearing Oﬃcer’s determination of the Respondent’s responsibility and amend the
disciplinary sanctions and remedies, if applicable; or
Aﬃrm or amend the sanctions and/or remedies outlined in the administrative disposition issued
under Section 6.2(C) of this Policy.
The ﬁnal determination regarding the Respondent’s responsibility (or ﬁnal sanctions and remedies for
the Respondent’s administrative disposition) is ﬁnal and it concludes the Formal Grievance Process
for the matter.
The appellate oﬃcers are as follows: Students – Vice President for Student Aﬀairs; Faculty –
Executive Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost – appropriate Vice President. If a conﬂict
exists with an appellate oﬃcer, the appeal will be forwarded to the President, or their designee.
The Alternative Formal Grievance Process for Students applies where the Respondent is a student at
the time of the alleged conduct and where the alleged conduct does not include Sexual Harassment
(as a possible policy violation), but the alleged conduct includes one or more other forms of
Prohibited Conduct (as possible policy violations under this Policy). Under these circumstances, the
Formal Complaints will use the Formal Grievance Process in Section 6.1, with the following
exceptions below.
Section 6.1(B)(8) applies except that the completed investigation report will also include: a
preliminary determination of whether the Respondent violated each policy provision at issue and an
accompanying rationale for that preliminary determination. The completed investigation report and
determination regarding responsibility will be referred to the Oﬃce of Community Standards and
Conduct (“OCSC”).
6.2 Alternative Formal Grievance Process for Students
A. Application
B. Investigation Report & Preliminary Determination
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 29/52

The Oﬃce of Community Standards and Conduct will conduct an independent review of the
investigation report, and will:
Accept the preliminary determination regarding responsibility of the Respondent, and either (a)
dismiss the case (e.g. no ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s)) or (b) proceed to adjudication (e.g. ﬁnding(s)
of policy violation(s)) (when applicable);
Amend the preliminary determination regarding responsibility of the Respondent, and proceed to
adjudication (e.g. ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s)) (if applicable); or
Remand the process back to the investigation stage to address an investigation concern.
Where the ﬁndings of responsibility proceed to the adjudication stage, the applicable parties
will receive an administrative disposition outlining the policy violation(s) and applicable
adjudication options based on violation type: (a) Sexual Misconduct Violations, and (b) Non-Sexual
Misconduct Violations.
The administrative disposition will:
Outline each of the Formal Complaint allegations that potentially constitutes Prohibited Conduct
under this Policy;
Identify the policies and procedures that the University used for the Formal Grievance Process;
Include the evaluation of the relevant evidence;
Include the credibility assessment of the relevant evidence from the parties and witnesses (if in
dispute to the Formal Complaint allegations);
Include the ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s) for each applicable allegation and the related rationale
for the determination of each allegation based on the preponderance of credible evidence;
Outline the disciplinary sanctions, and remedies (if applicable); and
The applicable adjudication options based on violation type.
A. Sexual Misconduct Violations. When a ﬁnding of policy violations includes Sexual Misconduct
violations that does not rise to the level of a type of Sexual Harassment under this Policy (such as
C. Adjudication
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 30/52

Sex Discrimination, Other Inappropriate Sexual Conduct or Sexual Exploitation), the Respondent
and Complainant may elect one of the following:
1. Accepting the Administrative Disposition. Both parties agree to the Respondent’s determination
of responsibility for the ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s), the sanctions, and remedies outlined in
the administrative disposition, and waive the option of a hearing. By selecting this adjudication
option, the administrative disposition will be ﬁnal and concludes the Formal Grievance Process
for the matter. The Respondent will receive the ﬁnal administrative disposition and a copy of the
ﬁnal administrative disposition will be issued to the Title IX Coordinator as well.
2. Respondent Disputes Sanctions in the Administrative Disposition. Both parties agree to the
Respondent’s determination of responsibility for the ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s), but the
Respondent and/or Complainant dispute and appeal the sanctions and remedies outlined in the
administrative disposition, and waive the option of a hearing. See Appeals, Section 6.1(E) of
this Policy.
3. Selecting a Live Hearing. See Live Hearing, Section 6.2(D) of this Policy.
If both parties decline to respond to the administrative disposition by the designated deadline, a
live hearing will proceed accordingly. See Live Hearing, Section 6.2(D) of this Policy.
B. Non-Sexual Misconduct Violations. When a ﬁnding of policy violation(s) doesn’t include Sexual
Misconduct violations but are policy violations applicable for students under this Policy (such as
Retaliation, False Information/False Complaints, or Interference with the Grievance Process), the
Respondent may elect one of the following adjudication options:
1. Accepting the Administrative Disposition. The Respondent agrees to the determination of
responsibility for the ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s), the sanctions, and remedies outlined in the
administrative disposition, and waives the option of a hearing. By selecting this adjudication
option, the administrative disposition will be ﬁnal and concludes the Formal Grievance Process
for the matter. The Respondent will receive the ﬁnal administrative disposition and a copy of the
ﬁnal administrative disposition will be issued to the Title IX Coordinator as well.
2. Respondent Disputes Sanctions in the Administrative Disposition. The Respondent agrees to
the determination of responsibility for the ﬁnding(s) of policy violation(s), but the Respondent
disputes and appeals the sanctions and remedies outlined in the administrative disposition, and
waives the option of a hearing. See Appeals, Section 6.1(E) of this Policy.
3. Selecting a Live Hearing. Only if suspension or expulsion (or deferred suspension) is included in
the outlined sanctions of the Administrative Disposition, then a live hearing will be oﬀered as an
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 31/52

alternative to accepting all or parts of the Administrative Disposition. See Live Hearing, Section
6.2(D) of this Policy. Otherwise, this adjudication option will not be available.
If the Respondent or Complainant selects a hearing (when available as an adjudicative option), then
the administrative disposition is disregarded, and the determination regarding the Respondent’s
responsibility and sanctions (if applicable) will be made by an impartial Hearing Oﬃcer. The hearing
procedures in Section 6.1(C) will apply, with the following exception:
A. Procedure for Questioning Participants. The hearing oﬃcer may, at the Hearing Oﬃcer’s
discretion, ask questions during the hearing of any party or witness and may be the ﬁrst person to
ask questions of any party or witness. Each party may ask relevant questions of any witness at the
hearing, except that cross-examination questions of the other party must be submitted in writing
to the Hearing Oﬃcer. The Hearing Oﬃcer will then ask relevant cross-examination questions of
the other party and allow for relevant follow-up questions (if applicable). Advisors are not
permitted to ask any questions of the parties or witnesses at the hearing.
After the parties have been provided a copy of the written notice of a Formal Complaint, the parties
may voluntarily engage in an Informal Resolution (IR) process to resolve the Formal Complaint. The IR
process is generally designed to facilitate a mutually agreeable outcome to alleged conduct that
centers on eliminating Prohibited Conduct, preventing its reoccurrence, and remedying the conduct’s
eﬀects in a manner that meets the needs of the Complainant while maintaining the safety of the
campus community.
The IR process, if available, may be initiated by the parties, in writing, at any point prior to reaching a
determination regarding the Respondent’s responsibility of alleged policy violations.
If a party is interested in the IR process, please contact the Title IX Coordinator (or University
oﬃcial/designee) who can assist with determining availability of the IR process and whether the other
party is interested in a potential Informal Resolution.
D. Live Hearing
6.3 Informal Resolution (IR)
A. Availability
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 32/52

The Informal Resolution process is not permitted in cases where Sexual Harassment is alleged in the
Formal Complaint when the Complainant is a student and the Respondent is an employee. Informal
Resolution is also not available where the Respondent:
A. Has previously participated in the Informal Resolution process and where that process resulted in a
mutual IR agreement; or
B. Has previous Sexual Misconduct policy violations.
For all other cases, the University has the discretion to determine whether Informal Resolution is
appropriate to resolve the Formal Complaint, depending on the speciﬁc facts and circumstances of
the case. In determining whether Informal Resolution is appropriate, the University may consider,
among other factors:
Whether the alleged conduct involved violence, threats, intimidation, coercion, or
other circumstances that may present a signiﬁcant safety risk to an individual or the
University community;
Whether there is an actual or perceived power imbalance between the parties that could aﬀect a
party’s ability to participate voluntarily and meaningfully in the Informal Resolution process;
Whether the allegations suggest a pattern of misconduct or otherwise indicate an ongoing risk to
the safety or well-being of an individual or the University community;
Whether both parties are willing and able to participate voluntarily, knowingly, and in good faith in
an Informal Resolution process;
Whether an Informal Resolution process is reasonably likely to eliminate the alleged conduct,
prevent its recurrence, and address its eﬀects; and
Whether Informal Resolution is otherwise consistent with the University’s obligation to provide a
safe, nondiscriminatory educational and working environment.
The University reserves the right to determine, in its sole discretion, whether Informal Resolution is
appropriate in a particular matter and may decline or terminate the Informal Resolution process at
any time if it determines that a Formal Grievance Process is necessary to address the allegations and
fulﬁll its obligations under applicable law and University policy.
B. Written Notice of the IR Process
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 33/52

Once it is determined that an Informal Resolution (IR) is available to resolve the Formal Complaint,
both parties will be notiﬁed in writing of the initiation of the IR process, and the parties’ rights and
responsibilities in the IR process.
The written notice of the IR process will include the following:
The Formal Complaint allegations;
The requirements of the IR process (as outlined in Section 6.3 of this Policy);
Prior to an IR Agreement, a party has the right to withdraw from the IR process, and separately,
initiate or resume the Formal Grievance Process or Alternative Formal Grievance Process for
Students (as outlined in Section 6.1 and 6.2 of this Policy);
Includes examples of potential terms that may be reached in an IR Agreement;
If by signing an IR Agreement, the parties would be agreeing to the terms of the agreement, would
be bound by the terms of the agreement, and thereby would waive the right to a Formal Grievance
Process regarding the alleged conduct at issue; and
The IR Agreement, if signed, will be retained, as outlined in Grievance Process Documentation and
Record Retention, Section 6.5 of this Policy.
The parties may explore and determine their own set of terms for their IR Agreement. The University
will provide an IR facilitator to navigate the IR process. Any IR Agreement must be approved by the
Title IX Coordinator (or University oﬃcial/designee).
By signing an IR Agreement, the parties are aﬃrming that the terms of the agreement (along with any
other supportive or interim measures in place, if applicable) appropriately address the alleged conduct
at issue and remedy its eﬀects. By signing an IR Agreement, the parties are bound by the terms of the
agreement and waive the right to a Formal Grievance Process regarding the alleged conduct at issue.
By signing an IR Agreement, the parties agree to comply with the terms of the agreement. However,
the parties’ failure to comply with any terms of the IR Agreement may result in its own disciplinary
action and mutually agreed-upon consequences in the agreement.
C. IR Agreement and Approval Process
D. Terms and Conditions
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 34/52

No recording of the IR process will be made and all statements made during the IR process may not
be used for or against either party (in addition, the Hearing Oﬃcer and Appellate Oﬃcer may not
consider any such statement made during IR process) should the parties resume the Formal
Grievance Process.
At any point prior to signing the IR Agreement, each party has a right to withdraw from the IR
process, and separately, initiate or resume the Formal Grievance Process or Alternative Formal
Grievance Process for Students (as outlined in Section 6.1) with respect to the Formal Complaint.
The IR Agreement, if signed, will be retained, as outlined in Grievance Process Documentation and
Record Retention, Section 6.5 of this Policy.
Under the 2020 Title IX regulations, universities are required to distinguish between prohibited
conduct that is “under Title IX” and Prohibited Conduct that is a violation of university policy. Under
Title IX, the University must dismiss a Formal Complaint or the part of the allegations in a Formal
Complaint, if applicable, where Sexual Harassment is alleged and where:
A. The conduct alleged does not meet the deﬁnition of Sexual Harassment;
B. The alleged conduct did not occur in the University’s education program or activity; or
C. The alleged conduct did not occur against a person in the United States.
A dismissal under this provision only applies to allegations of Sexual Harassment under Title IX. In
such an instance, the University may still investigate a Formal Complaint for allegations of Sexual
Harassment under this Policy. The University may also investigate allegations of Prohibited Conduct
under this Policy but it will not technically be “under Title IX.”
E. Withdrawal from IR Participation
6.4 Formal Complaint Dismissal
A. Mandatory Formal Complaint Dismissals under the 2020 Title
IX Regulations
B. Other Formal Complaint Dismissals
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 35/52

The University may dismiss a Formal Complaint, at its discretion, under this Policy’s Grievance
Process for any of the following circumstances:
The Complainant voluntarily withdraws any or all of the Formal Complaint allegations and the
University determines that the remaining allegations (if any) would not constitute Prohibited
Conduct deﬁned in this Policy, even if proven;
The Complainant submits a written request to the University to not investigate the Formal
Complaint ﬁled, and the University determines it can and will honor the request, in accordance with
Section 3.1(B) and (C) of this Policy and applicable state law;
The University is unable to identify the Respondent, after the University has taken reasonable steps
to do so;
The Respondent is no longer employed by the University;
Any other speciﬁc circumstances that prevent the University from gathering suﬃcient evidence to
reach a determination as to the Formal Complaint or any allegations therein;
The University determines the alleged conduct in the Formal Complaint would not constitute
Prohibited Conduct under this Policy, even if proven; or
The University determines the Formal Complaint does not fall within the scope or applicability of
this Policy.
When the University dismisses a Formal Complaint, the University will provide the parties a written
notice of the Formal Complaint Dismissal, the basis for the dismissal. The parties may appeal the
Formal Complaint Dismissal when it includes Sexual Harassment allegations, as outlined below.
Otherwise, there is no appeal available.
When the Formal Complaint Dismissal includes Sexual Harassment allegations, an applicable party
may appeal in writing within 10 days of notiﬁcation of the dismissal.
A. Basis for Appeal. For the appeal of a Complaint Dismissal to be considered, the basis for ﬁling an
appeal and supporting evidence must be included. An applicable party may appeal the Formal
Complaint Dismissal on the following bases:
C. Notice of Formal Complaint Dismissal
D. Appeals of Formal Complaint Dismissals
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 36/52

A procedural irregularity that aﬀected the outcome of the matter;
There is new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the dismissal was made that
could aﬀect the outcome of the matter; or
The Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), or a decision-maker had a conﬂict of interest or bias
for or against the parties (generally, or speciﬁcally in this matter) that aﬀected the outcome of
the matter.
B. Notice of Appeal Filed. The parties will be notiﬁed in writing when an appeal is ﬁled. The appeal
procedures will apply equally for both parties.
C. Opportunity to Respond. The non-appealing party (if applicable) and the University will have 7 days
from the notiﬁcation of an appeal to submit a written statement responding to the appeal.
D. Final Determination Regarding Formal Complaint Dismissals. Before rendering a decision, the
Appellate Oﬃcer will consider all relevant evidence regarding the Formal Complaint Dismissal and
its appeal. The Appellate Oﬃcer will release a written decision within 21 days from the date the
appeal was ﬁled, with one of the following determinations:
Aﬃrm the Formal Complaint Dismissal; or
Remand the process back to a Formal Grievance Process.
The appellate oﬃcers are as follows: Students – Vice President for Student Aﬀairs; Faculty –
Executive Vice President for Academic Aﬀairs and Provost – appropriate Vice President. If a conﬂict
exists with an appellate oﬃcer, the appeal will be forwarded to the President, or their designee.
The University (through the appropriate oﬃce) will retain all of the documentation included from the
resolution of a Grievance Process under this Policy and all training materials for key roles (as outlined
in Section 5.11 of this Policy). The records retention of such documents will be for seven years, in
accordance with state and federal records laws and University policy.
All documentation of records is private and conﬁdential to the extent possible under law. Student
records of the Grievance Process are subject to FERPA. Employee records of the Grievance Process
are subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Texas Public Information Act (TPIA),
and included in the employee’s oﬃcial employment record.
6.5 Grievance Process Documentation and Record Retention
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 37/52

Informal Resolutions (IR) of a Complaint will be concluded within 45 days of notice to the University
that both parties wish to proceed with the Informal Resolution process. Such notice that the parties
wish to proceed with an IR process will “pause” the counting of the Investigation and Grievance
Process timeframes, as outlined in Sections 6.6(B) and (C) of this Policy. Further, should the IR
process fail, the Investigation and Grievance Process timeframes will resume accordingly.
The investigation of a Formal Complaint (outlined in Section 6.1(B) of this Policy) will be concluded
within 90 days of the Formal Complaint ﬁled. The University will provide updates on the progress of
the investigation, as needed or requested.
The entire Formal Grievance Process (outlined in Section 6 of this Policy, including any appeal) will be
completed in no more than 150 days from the ﬁling of the Complaint. However, the circumstances
may require a temporary delay in this timeframe and the University may extend this timeframe for
good cause. In such an instance, the University will provide written notice to the parties of the delay
or extension and the reason(s) for the action.
Delay for good cause may include considerations such as the absence of a party, a party’s advisor, or
a witness; concurrent law enforcement activity; or the need for language assistance or
accommodation of disabilities. The time period in this section does not include the period the parties
attempted but failed to reach an agreement in the Informal Resolution (IR) Process, if applicable; and
in such a case, the Grievance Process timeframe will be extended by the period the parties attempted
to reach an IR Agreement (outlined in Section 6.3 of this Policy).
Failure of the institution to adhere to the timeframes above will not result in a dismissal of the matter;
instead, if the institution does not adhere to any of the above timeframes, the parties may inquire
about the delay to the Title IX Coordinator.
6.6 Timeframes
A. Informal Resolution (IR) Timeframe
B. Investigation Timeframe
C. Formal Grievance Process Timeframe
Sec. 7 Dissemination of Policy and Educational Programs
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 38/52

This Policy and the University’s Title IX Notice of Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex will be made
available to all University administrators, faculty, staﬀ, and students online at
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102, in University student catalog(s), any employee handbook of
operating procedures, and any other required publications. Periodic notices will be sent to University
administrators, faculty, staﬀ and students about the University’s Sexual Misconduct Policy, including
but not limited to at the beginning of each fall and spring semester. The notice will include
information about Sexual Misconduct, Retaliation, and other Prohibited Conduct under this Policy, in
addition to how to ﬁle a report or Formal Complaint, the University Grievance Process under this
Policy, and available Supportive Measures and resources, such as support services, health, and mental
health services. The notice will specify the right to ﬁle a Formal Complaint under this Policy, right to
ﬁle a police report to law enforcement, the Title IX Coordinator’s contact information, and will refer
individuals to designated oﬃces or oﬃcials for additional information.
The University’s commitment to raising awareness of the dangers of Sexual Misconduct includes
providing ongoing education through annual training and lectures by faculty, staﬀ, mental health
professionals, and/or trained University personnel. Prevention education and training programs will
be provided to University administrators, faculty, staﬀ, and students and will include information
about primary prevention, risk reduction, and bystander intervention: https://institutional-
compliance.utdallas.edu/prevention-education/; see also https://studentwellness.utdallas.edu.
All Title IX Coordinators, Deputy Coordinators, investigators, and those with authority over University
Grievance Processes, and appeals shall receive training each academic year about applicable
Prohibited Conduct, Grievance Processes, due process, and University policies related to Sexual
Misconduct. All training materials used to train Title IX-related personnel (e.g. Title IX Coordinators,
deputies, investigators, hearing oﬃcers, and appellate oﬃcers (among others)) will be available on the
University’s website: https://institutional-compliance.utdallas.edu/title-ix/training/.
Sexual Misconduct Violations:
7.1 Policy Notice and Dissemination
7.2 Ongoing Trainings
7.3 Training Materials for Key Roles in the Grievance Process
Sec. 8 Definitions of Conduct Violations under this Policy
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 39/52

Occurs when an individual is treated less favorably on the basis of that person’s sex (including
gender), which may also include on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, or expression,
pregnancy or pregnancy-related condition, or a sex stereotype. Sexual harassment, as deﬁned in this
Policy, is a form of sex discrimination.
Conduct on the basis of sex that satisﬁes one or more of the following:
A. Quid Pro Quo: An employee of the institution conditioning the provision of an aid, beneﬁt, or
service of the University on an individual’s participation in unwelcome sexual conduct;
B. Hostile Environment: Unwelcome conduct determined by a reasonable person to be so severe,
pervasive, and objectively oﬀensive that it eﬀectively denies a person equal access to the
University’s education program or activity; or
C. “Sexual Assault,” “Dating Violence,” “Domestic Violence,” or “Stalking” as deﬁned in this Policy.
Note: Subsections (1) and (3) in this deﬁnition are not evaluated for severity, pervasiveness,
oﬀensiveness, or denial of equal educational access, because such conduct is suﬃciently serious to
deprive a person of equal access. Therefore, any instance of Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment and
any instance of Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, and Stalking are considered
Sexual Harassment under this Policy.
For the purposes of Subsection (2) in this deﬁnition:
“Eﬀectively denies a person equal access.” Conduct that interferes with, limits, or deprives a
person from participating in or beneﬁting from the University’s education or employment programs
and/or activities.
An oﬀense that meets the deﬁnition of rape, fondling, incest, or statutory rape:
A. Rape. The causing of penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or
object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.
A. Sex Discrimination
B. Sexual Harassment
C. Sexual Assault
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 40/52

B. Fondling. The causing of intentional touching of the clothed or unclothed genitals, buttocks, groin,
breasts, or other body parts of another person, without the person’s consent, for the purpose of
sexual degradation, sexual gratiﬁcation, or sexual humiliation.
C. Incest. Sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the degrees
wherein marriage is prohibited by law.
D. Statutory Rape. Sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent.
Violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate
nature with the victim. The existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on the
consideration of the following factors:
The length of the relationship;
The type of relationship; and
The frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the relationship.
Dating violence includes, but is not limited to, physical, sexual, economic or technological abuse (or
the threat of such abuse). It does not include acts under the deﬁnition of “Domestic Violence.”
Includes felony or misdemeanor crimes committed by a current or former spouse or intimate partner
of the victim under the domestic or family violence laws of the state of Texas, including the use or
attempted use of physical abuse or sexual abuse, or a pattern of any other coercive behavior
committed, enabled, or solicited to gain or maintain power and control over a victim, including verbal,
psychological, economic, or technological abuse that may or may not constitute criminal behavior, by
a person who:
Is a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the victim, or a person similarly situated to a
spouse of the victim;
Shares a child in common with the victim;
Is cohabitating, or has cohabitated, with the victim as a spouse or intimate partner; or
D. Dating Violence
E. Domestic Violence
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 41/52

Commits acts against an adult or youth victim who is protected from those acts under the domestic
or family violence laws of the state of Texas.
Domestic Violence, under this Policy, cannot be committed by a person who is simply living
together and cohabiting as roommates, if the individuals were not current or former spouses or
intimate partners.
Engaging in a course of conduct directed at a speciﬁc person that would cause a reasonable person to
(a) fear for his or her safety or the safety of others, or (b) suﬀer substantial emotional distress.
For the purposes of the Stalking deﬁnition:
Course of conduct. Two or more acts, including, but not limited to, acts in which the stalker
directly, indirectly, or through third parties, by any action, method, device, or means, follows,
monitors, observes, surveils, threatens, or communicates to or about a person, or interferes with a
person’s property.
Reasonable person. A reasonable person under similar circumstances and with similar identities to
the victim.
Substantial emotional distress. Signiﬁcant mental suﬀering or anguish that may, but does not
necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or counseling.
Any nonconsensual or abusive conduct that takes sexual advantage of another person for the
purposes of sexual arousal or gratiﬁcation, ﬁnancial gain, or other personal beneﬁt.
Examples of Sexual Exploitation include, but are not limited to:
Transmitting, distributing, publishing, or threatening to transmit, distribute, or publish photos,
video, audio, or other recordings, images, or generated images of a private and sexual nature,
including consensual sexual activity, without the consent of the subject(s);
Taking, making, sharing, or directly transmitting photographs, ﬁlms, digital images, or generated
images of the private body parts of another person without that person’s consent;
F. Stalking
G. Sexual Exploitation
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 42/52

Prostituting another person;
Surreptitiously watching or knowingly allowing another to surreptitiously watch otherwise
consensual sexual activity, without consent;
The intentional removal of a condom or other contraceptive barrier during sexual activity without
the consent of a sexual partner;
Threatening to “out” someone based on sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression;
Threatening to disclose sensitive details about one’s sexual preferences, habits,
and/or experiences;
Threatening to expose someone’s prior sexual activity to another person; or
Knowingly transmitting a sexually transmitted disease (STD) to another person without the
person’s knowledge.
Conduct on the basis of sex that does not meet the deﬁnition of “Sexual Harassment” under this
Policy but is:
Unwelcome conduct that is objectively oﬀensive and so severe or pervasive that it unreasonably
interferes with, limits, or eﬀectively denies a person’s ability to participate in or beneﬁt from
a University program or activity, or adversely aﬀects the terms and conditions of a person’s
University employment.
Whether the conduct is “on the basis of sex” will be determined by examining the totality of the
circumstances, whether a reasonable person subjected to the conduct would construe the conduct as
“on the basis of sex”, and whether the individual subject to the conduct construed it as “on the basis
of sex.”
Examples of Other Inappropriate Sexual Conduct include, but are not limited to:
Unwelcome sexual advances (including explicit or implicit proposition(s) of sexual contact
or activity);
Requests for sexual favors (including overt or subtle pressure);
H. Other Inappropriate Sexual Conduct
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 43/52

Gratuitous comments about an individual’s sexual activities or speculation about an individual’s
sexual experiences;
Gratuitous comments, jokes, questions, anecdotes or remarks of a sexual nature about clothing
or bodies;
Persistent, unwanted sexual or romantic attention; or
Deliberate, repeated humiliation or intimidation;
Unwelcome intentional touching of a sexual nature;
Deliberate physical interference with or restriction of movement;
Exposure to sexually suggestive visual displays such as photographs, graﬃti, posters, calendars or
other materials; or
Consensual sexual conduct that is unprofessional and inappropriate for the educational or
workplace environment, such as engaging in sex acts in the workplace.
Depending on the nature of a Formal Complaint, the alleged conduct may not violate this Policy, but
may violate:
Nondiscrimination Policy (UTDBP3090);
Reporting Suspected Unlawful Activity and Protection from Retaliation (UTDBP3105);
Consensual Relationships (UTDBP3103);
Student Code of Conduct (UTDSP5003);
Discipline and Dismissal of Staﬀ Employees (UTDBP3056);
University Policy on Faculty Conduct (UTDPP1049); and,
Any other relevant policies.
Non-Sexual Misconduct Violations:
Any adverse action (including, but is not limited to, intimidation, threats, coercion, harassment, or
discrimination) taken against someone either (a) because the individual has made a report or ﬁled a
Formal Complaint; or who has supported or provided information in connection with a report or a
Formal Complaint; participated or refused to participate in a Grievance Process under this Policy; or
I. Retaliation
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 44/52

engaged in other legally protected activities, or (b) for the purpose of interfering with any right or
privilege secured under Title IX or this Policy.
Any person who retaliates against (a) anyone ﬁling a report or Formal Complaint under this Policy, (b)
the parties or any other participants (including any witnesses or any University employee) in a
Grievance Process relating to a Complaint, (c) any person who refuses to participate in a Grievance
Process, or (d) any person who under this Policy opposed any unlawful practice, is subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal or separation from the University.
Any person, who in bad faith, knowingly ﬁles a false complaint under this Policy or provides materially
false information is subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal or separation from
the University.
A determination that a Respondent is not responsible for allegations of Sexual Misconduct does not
imply a report, Formal Complaint, or information provided was false. Similarly, a determination that a
Respondent is responsible for a policy violation does not imply that a Respondent’s statements
disclaiming responsibility were false.
Any person who interferes with the Grievance Process (outlined in Section 6 of this Policy) is subject
to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal or separation from the University.
Interference with a Grievance Process may include, but is not limited to:
Attempting to coerce, compel, or prevent an individual from providing testimony or
relevant information;
Removing, destroying, or altering documentation relevant to the Grievance Process; or
Knowingly providing false or misleading information to the Title IX Coordinator, investigator or
hearing oﬃcer, or encouraging others to do so.
J. False Information and False Complaints
K. Interference with the Grievance Process
L. Failure to Report for Responsible Employees
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 45/52

If a Responsible Employee knowingly fails to promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator all
information concerning an incident the employee reasonably believes constitutes Sexual Misconduct
(including Stalking, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Sexual Harassment) committed by or against a
student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee is subject to disciplinary action,
including termination.
The duty to report acts reasonably believed to be stalking, dating violence, sexual assault, and sexual
harassment arises from state law. The University goes further and requires Responsible Employees to
report all acts reasonably believed to be any type of Sexual Misconduct, as deﬁned in this Policy. It is
important to note that for purposes of Failure to Report, the deﬁnition of sexual harassment, as
deﬁned under state law, is broader than the deﬁnition of sexual harassment under this Policy and is
deﬁned as: Unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:
In the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person’s work performance or creates
an intimidating, hostile, or oﬀensive work environment; or
In the education context, is suﬃciently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes
with a student’s ability to participate in or beneﬁt from educational programs or activities at a
postsecondary institution.
The individual who is alleged to have been subjected to conduct that could constitute Prohibited
Conduct under this Policy.
Includes counselors in Counseling and Psychological Services, health care providers in Health
Services, or clergypersons.
Additionally, employees who receive information regarding alleged Sexual Misconduct under
circumstances that render the employee’s communications conﬁdential or privileged under other law
(such as attorneys) are also considered “Conﬁdential Employees.” This only applies with respect to
information received while the employee is functioning within the scope of their duties to which
Sec. 9 Additional Terms and Definitions
A. Complainant
B. Conﬁdential Employee
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 46/52

privilege or conﬁdentiality applies. For designated conﬁdential employees, the employee’s
“conﬁdential status” is only with respect to information received about alleged Sexual Misconduct in
connection with providing those services.
Note: Under state law, Conﬁdential Employees who receive information regarding incidents of Sexual
Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence or Stalking (as deﬁned under state law) committed by or
against a student or an employee of the University, are required to report the type of incident to the
Title IX Coordinator (or Deputy Coordinators). Conﬁdential Employees may not include any
information that would violate a student’s expectation of privacy. The Conﬁdential Employee’s duty
to report an incident under any other law also applies.
A voluntary, mutually understandable agreement that clearly indicates a willingness to engage in each
instance of sexual activity. Consent to one act does not imply consent to another. Consent to engage
in sexual activity with one person does not imply consent to engage in sexual activity with another.
Consent can be withdrawn at any time. Any expression of an unwillingness to engage in any instance
of sexual activity establishes a presumptive lack of consent.
Consent is not eﬀective if it results from: (a) the use of physical force, (b) a threat of physical force, (c)
intimidation, (d) coercion, (e) incapacitation or (f) any other factor that would eliminate an individual’s
ability to exercise his or her own free will to choose whether or not to have sexual activity.
A current or previous dating or sexual relationship, by itself, is not suﬃcient to constitute consent.
Even in the context of a relationship, there must be a voluntary, mutually understandable agreement
that clearly indicates a willingness to engage in each instance of sexual activity.
The deﬁnition of consent for the crime of Sexual Assault in Texas can be found in Section 22.011(b)
of the Texas Penal Code.
For the purposes of the Consent deﬁnition, or as referenced in this Policy:
Physical Force (or Threat of Physical Force). The use of physical violence or is physically imposing in
a manner that is intended to overcome resistance or elicit consent of another individual to gain
sexual access. Physical force also includes the threat of such force.
C. Consent
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 47/52

Intimidation. Unlawfully placing another person in reasonable fear of bodily harm through the use
of threatening words and/or other conduct, but without displaying a weapon or subjecting the
victim to actual physical attack.
Coercion. The use of unreasonable pressure to compel another individual to initiate or continue
sexual activity against an individual’s will. Coercion can include a wide range of behaviors, including
psychological or emotional pressure, physical or emotional threats, intimidation, manipulation, or
blackmail that causes the person to engage in unwelcome sexual activity. A person’s words or
conduct are suﬃcient to constitute coercion if they eliminate a reasonable person’s freedom of will
and ability to choose whether or not to engage in sexual activity.
Incapacitation. The inability, temporarily or permanently, to give consent because the individual is
mentally and/or physically helpless, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or the individual is
unconscious, asleep, or otherwise unaware that the sexual activity is occurring. An individual may
be incapacitated if they are unaware at the time of the incident of where they are, how they got
there, or why or how they became engaged in a sexual interaction.
When alcohol is involved, incapacitation is a state beyond drunkenness or intoxication. When drug
use is involved, incapacitation is a state beyond being under the inﬂuence or impaired by use of the
drug. Alcohol and other drugs impact each individual diﬀerently, and determining whether an
individual is incapacitated requires an individualized determination.
After establishing that a person is in fact incapacitated, the University will ask two questions:
A. Did the person initiating sexual activity know that the other party was incapacitated? and if not,
B. Should a sober, reasonable person in the same situation have known that the other party
was incapacitated?
If the answer to either of these questions is “YES,” then consent was absent, and the conduct is
likely a violation of this Policy.
A Respondent will be found to have violated policy only if the Respondent knew or should have
known that the person was incapacitated.
In the context of Dating and Domestic Violence (Conduct Violations deﬁned in this Policy), it means
behavior that is coercive, deceptive, or unreasonably controls or restrains a person’s ability to acquire,
use, or maintain economic resources to which they are entitled, including using coercion, fraud, or
manipulation to:
D. Economic Abuse
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 48/52

Restrict a person’s access to money, assets, credit, or ﬁnancial information;
Unfairly use a person’s personal economic resources, including money, assets, and credit, for one’s
own advantage; or
Exert undue inﬂuence over a person’s ﬁnancial and economic behavior or decisions, including
forcing default on joint or other ﬁnancial obligations, exploiting powers of attorney, guardianship,
or conservatorship, or failing or neglecting to act in the best interests of a person to whom one has
a ﬁduciary duty.
In evaluating whether conduct is “objectively oﬀensive,” one considers what a reasonable person
would ﬁnd hostile, intimidating, or abusive.
The term “participants” includes the University representative, Complainant, Respondent, and
any witnesses.
The term “party” (or “parties”) refers to the “Complainant” and the “Respondent” under this Policy.
In evaluating whether conduct is “pervasive,” one considers the type, frequency, and duration of
the conduct.
The individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of Prohibited Conduct under this policy.
(For UT-aﬃliated K-12 schools (e.g. charter schools), a parent or legal guardian of a Respondent may
act on behalf of the Respondent.)
In evaluating whether conduct is “severe,” one considers the degree to which the conduct was
threatening, harmful, or humiliating.
E. Objectively Oﬀensive
F. Participants
G. Party (or Parties)
H. Pervasive
I. Respondent
J. Severe
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 49/52

This term is broadly deﬁned to encompass Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault,
Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Stalking, Sexual Exploitation, and Other Inappropriate
Sexual Conduct.
In the context of Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, or Stalking (Conduct Violations
deﬁned in this Policy), means an act or pattern of behavior that is intended to harm, threaten,
intimidate, control, stalk, harass, impersonate, exploit, extort, or monitor, except as otherwise
permitted by law, another person, that occurs using any form of technology, including but not limited
to: internet enabled devices, online spaces and platforms, computers, mobile devices, cameras and
imaging programs, apps, location tracking devices, communication technologies, or any other
emerging technologies.
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681–1688 and its implementing
regulations, 34 C.F.R. Part 106
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e–2000e-17 and its implementing
regulations 29 C.F.R. §1604.11
Clery Act, 20 U.S.C §1092(f) and its implementing regulations 34 C.F.R. Part 668
FERPA Regulations, 34 C.F.R. Part 99
Texas Education Code, Chapter 51, Subchapter E-2: Reporting Incidents of Sexual Harassment,
Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, and Stalking §51.251–51.259
Texas Education Code, Chapter 51, Subchapter E-3: Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating
Violence, and Stalking §51.281–51.291
Texas Education Code, Chapter 51, Subchapter Z: Protections for Pregnant and Parenting
Students §51.982
Texas Labor Code, Chapter 21, Subchapter C-1: Sexual Harassment §21.141–21.142
K. Sexual Misconduct
L. Technological Abuse
4. Relevant Federal and State Statutes, and Standards
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 50/52

Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Chapter 56A, Request for Forensic Medical Examination
Art. 56A.251
Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Chapter 56A, Presence of Sexual Assault Program Advocate
Art. 56A.351
Texas Administrative Code, Title 19, Part 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter X: Parenting and Pregnant
Students §4.370–4.376
Regents’ Rules and Regulations, Rule 30105 Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, and
Consensual Relationships
Regents’ Rules and Regulations, Rule 31008 Termination of a Faculty Member
University of Texas Systemwide Policy UTS 184, Consensual Relationships
Sexual Misconduct Policy (UTDBP3102)
Nondiscrimination Policy (UTDBP3090)
Policy for Reasonable Accommodations (UTDBP3100)
Student Pregnancy and Parenting Nondiscrimination Policy (UTDBP3121)
Student Code of Conduct (UTDSP5003)
Discipline and Dismissal of Staﬀ Employees (UTDBP3056)
University Policy on Faculty Conduct (UTDPP1049)
5. Other Relevant Policies, Procedures, and Forms
Emergency Preparedness Forms Campus Carry Campus Health Promotion
Campus Police Required links Tobacco-Free Campus UT System Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas Parking Nondiscrimination Policy Title IX Initiatives Org. Chart
A-Z Index Student Achievements HEERF Reporting Counseling/Mental Health
CONTACT US
The University of Texas at Dallas
800 West Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
Contact the Policy Coordinator
UT DALLAS
About UT Dallas
Oﬃce of the President
COVID Information
APPLY
VISIT
GIVING
CONTACT
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 51/52

Report Concern for a Student Safety Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Dallas
9/29/26, 7:39 PM UTDBP3102 Sexual Misconduct Policy | Policy Navigator | Policy Navigator | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://policy.utdallas.edu/utdbp3102 52/52
